mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity on the agenda to formally request that the high representative, catherine ashton, come to the chamber of this parliament to report on the acts which have been or will be carried out in relation to christians in the world. we would like you to come here with your report so that parliament can be kept fully informed.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not believe that this resolution will change the situation in tunisia, and that is why i am against it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress - on behalf of my group and, i believe, of the whole of parliament - the closeness we feel towards the people and the government of brazil for the very serious loss caused by the recent floods: we have to make sure that the people who have lost their lives are not left behind. at the same time, i would like to reiterate on behalf of the proposers - and i hope the whole of parliament - our firm intention to debate this issue, because the demand for justice has not yet been met, because the cesare battisti case deserves further consideration by the european parliament, which must make its voice heard at international level.
we share the concern about what is happening in tunisia and we express our condolences for the many people who have lost their lives during the demonstrations. the new and confusing phase that has opened up after the escape of former president ben ali must now lead to the goal that has been urged by many: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the introduction of economic and social reforms to meet the expectations of a very large part of the population and the expansion of democratic spaces, so that civil society and the various opposition forces are increasingly involved in public action and government. it is clear that each country has the right to choose its own path, but we are interested in seeing these reforms come to fruition and that the changes are real and not just make-up. but what is happening in tunisia these days is a question for all of us, a question for europe with its delays and its mistakes. in 1995, in barcelona, the european union launched the mediterranean partnership programme, which was to include economic, political, military and even social and human cooperation, but neither of the two key objectives has been achieved. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the programme, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future. the promise of a free trade area does not exist, but the most obvious failure is on the political level, which must be fully acknowledged, commissioner. the union for the mediterranean launched in 2008 has remained a facade. the summit that was to be held in november 2010 has been postponed indefinitely. the problem is that the various european governments have no interest in genuine cooperation and do not see it, preferring to maintain relations with questionable regimes, entrenched in the defence of national wealth which they control without democracy, while millions of young people live without prospects, except those of an increasingly difficult emigration. it is no wonder, then, that under the pressure of the economic and social crisis, the demonstrations in tunisia have turned into a tsunami capable of crashing heavily on the existing power structure. the european political realism is no longer able to hold out for fear of islamic fundamentalism, just as perhaps it is time to put a post-colonial concept, which tends to reappear from time to time in relations with the north african countries, into the archive once and for all. the european union must be able to take a more positive stance towards the mediterranean, and this is what we need. this means - and i strongly urge you, commissioner - a thorough review of the partnership and neighbourhood policies that have been followed up so far: we cannot hide the fact that both the commission and the council were even prepared to discuss the advanced status agreement with tunisia. on what criteria this was considered possible remains to be explained. we need a change of course, a change of pace, and this can be done - we say this to the commission and the council - by involving this parliament more fully in the formulation and implementation of a new idea of partnership with the mediterranean countries. this is not only in the interest of these countries, but above all in the interest of europe. many of the problems which europe is showing can only be tackled and solved through a productive and virtuous relationship with all the countries of the maghreb. the road ahead is narrow, but it is the only road to follow, that of supporting economic and democratic reforms and, at the same time, putting in place all the necessary antidotes against fundamentalism and terrorism. it is to be hoped that this tragic and bitter lesson from tunisia will serve us all to become more aware of what is worth doing, of what is worth changing in european action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the compromise reached on a number of specific points which i consider to be of vital importance for the effective achievement of the objectives which we are seeking to achieve with this legislative proposal. i am referring to the maintenance of the rules on simplified procedures, which are certainly designed to lighten the burden and reduce the costs borne by businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises. i think it is essential, in the context of a negative economic situation such as the present one, to recognise the important role played by small and mediumsized enterprises, which are one of the fundamental pillars on which our economy rests. furthermore, by introducing simplified procedural mechanisms and in particular by reducing the time taken to bring new products to market, the new regulation certainly promotes innovation. at the same time, it protects consumers by enabling them to benefit more quickly from innovative products without thereby sacrificing the guarantees of quality and safety which the ce mark must provide. i therefore believe that the agreement reached represents an excellent compromise which strikes the right balance between the needs of producers and consumers and thus ensures the proper functioning of the market in a sector which is truly the driving force of our european economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking commissioner john dalli for coming to the house today to report on this case which is alarming european consumers. the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, will also be discussing the consequences of this serious incident in greater depth next week. although europe is doing a lot on food safety, further efforts are needed in terms of transparency and controls to prevent further food contamination. i would remind you that last year parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the quality of agricultural products and, above all, this house adopted at first reading the regulation on food information to consumers, which introduced the mandatory indication of the place of origin on the labelling of agricultural products. this is an important development which, unfortunately, was set back on 8 december by the health council. we will try to reintroduce it at second reading, because it is an important step towards consumer protection and transparency for european consumers. parliament is therefore moving in the right direction, showing that it is on the side of consumers. we hope that the council and the commission will adopt a similar attitude.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to be one of the signatories to this question because i believe that it is essential, after the incident of the past few weeks, to open a debate on food safety. how healthy and nutritious are the products that millions of europeans consume every day? are we really sure that the products on our tables are safe? the quality of the raw materials is crucial to guarantee the genuineness of the final product; the only way to prevent food contamination and to detect potential risks immediately is to carry out constant checks from field to table. the new german incident confirms the need to make it compulsory for all products, including processed products, to bear an indication of origin on the label, as mr de castro has already stressed. we must protect the consumer's right to know the origin of every product he is buying and the food safety of our products can only be guaranteed by a shared responsibility of all operators. it is true that european legislation already provides for checks and procedures to ensure that the food that comes to our table is fit for consumption and that the risks of contamination are minimised, but our aim must now be to contribute daily to the improvement of the quality of food. i am proud to say that tomorrow the italian parliament will approve a law extending the mandatory indication of origin to all foodstuffs which do not currently have it. we will finally know the origin of products such as pork, even of long-term milk, fruit and vegetables and certain drinks such as orange juice. i hope that europe will take a cue from this law, and i will actively work to ensure greater transparency, information and protection of consumer rights, which i believe are essential to promote healthy and genuine food.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on intercountry adoption in the european union, by roberta angelilli (o-0193/2010 - b7-0670/2010).
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of my colleagues, including myself, have been made aware over the years of the problem of abandoned children, orphans and street children. among the associations that have contacted me is the friends of adoption. there are many such abandoned children, not only in the third world but also in europe. these are children who become invisible and end up in the vicious circle of poverty and social exclusion or, worse still, exploited by organized crime for begging, black labor, prostitution, organ trafficking or illegal adoptions. these are children who often spend their childhood in social workers and orphanages. we must guarantee these children the right to be adopted, the right to have a family. a child should be in an institution as little as possible. the objective, of course, is the best interests of the child, so adoption must certainly be granted with caution, under the scrupulous supervision of the competent national authorities, but if the conditions are right, children have the right to be adopted, first of all at national level, but also at international level, within the european union. i know that the commission is sensitive, although this is a purely national matter, but it would be desirable to have some sort of coordination between the commission and the member states in order to establish good practices and strategies capable of ensuring the greatest possible transparency, to avoid illegal adoptions and easy adoptions, but also to obtain the greatest possible cooperation from all the member states in guaranteeing the right to adopt and to prevent children from being left to themselves or, as i said earlier, abandoned in an institution.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for bringing forward this important question. the protection and promotion of children’s rights is a priority for the commission, especially since the launch of the communication entitled ‘towards an eu strategy on the rights of the child’ in 2006. the strategy on the rights of the child focuses on the fundamental rights of children, including the protection of the best interests of the child as enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. the commission is determined to ensure that all fundamental rights encompassed in the charter are duly respected by all eu actions, both legislative and non-legislative. this practice will be upheld and further developed in the forthcoming communication on the rights of the child that the commission will be publishing this year. as of this year, 2011, the commission will also be reporting annually on progress made on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights. we have to remember that the provisions of the charter are addressed to the institutions and bodies of the union, with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity, and to the member states only when they are implementing union law. we therefore have to remember that, currently, no european union legislation on international adoption exists. the subject is regulated by the hague convention of 29 may 1993 on protection of children and cooperation in respect of inter-country adoption, as well as by national laws. all the member states are party to that convention, but the eu is not. its aim is to implement article 21 of the un convention on the rights of the child by establishing safeguards to ensure that inter-country adoptions take place in the best interests of the child and that the child’s fundamental rights are respected. internationally, the commission supports the accession of third countries to the 1993 hague convention on inter-country adoption and its correct implementation by participating in relevant meetings of the contracting parties. the commission does not consider specific european rules on intra-eu adoptions to be necessary, as all 27 eu member states are parties to the hague convention. that being said, the commission is closely following the issue of international adoption within the european union, given the link between adoption and children’s rights. the commission has taken steps to see how countries are implementing the convention on adoption, and, in november 2009, provided a forum for an exchange of views on the issue. the commission’s green paper on the free circulation of public documents, published on 14 december 2010, addresses the lack of mutual recognition of adoption decisions as civil status acts between member states and its impact on the freedom of movement of eu citizens. this is a specific step which addresses the question raised today.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the subject of intercountry adoption is a subject of particular importance and it was right of mrs angelilli to put it to the european parliament at this part-session. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the adoption of children is not subject to any restrictions, and that the adoption of children is not subject to any restrictions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. they want us to contribute towards the family; the italian model, the model of other realities, can be followed: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, such as the reduction of the costs of international adoption, the facilitation of bank loans, procedures that are, as we said, streamlined and simplified, with real mechanisms for monitoring what is happening in the various member states, and the effective prevention of trafficking in human beings. and why not? if we want to put the family back at the centre, as we often say in this house, we must ensure that the associations, the associations which very often are the main vehicle for these adoptions, are characterized by particularly high standards of guarantee. if there is a suggestion and i conclude to the commissioner, it is: why not provide for a european accreditation system for these associations, so that they operate with transparency, clarity and concreteness, but with a high level of guarantee that really protects the inviolable and intangible rights of children?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for some years now many romanian families and children in italy have been suffering the consequences of romania's blocking of international adoptions. the hague convention is the framework for uniform implementation in all the countries of the european union, and romania must make an effort to adapt to it. if romania believes that blocking international adoptions is effective in protecting children, for example because of the risk of developing illegal trafficking of children, it should also tackle this problem with the help of the european union, by tightening controls and by introducing strict regulations; but we must make a commitment to ensure that as many good families as possible are able to welcome children who deserve a second chance at a happy childhood. i would therefore ask the commission how it intends to support any commitment by romania to lift the moratorium on intercountry adoptions and i would also like to know the commission's position on the possibility of setting up a european agency for adoption, also in the light of the studies carried out.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are discussing today what is a terrible contradiction for a union which wants to ensure full freedom of movement for its citizens and to be responsive to their needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the difficulties and obstacles facing intercountry adoption are a paradox which is a tragedy for thousands of children and families in the european union. the numerous international conventions have proved to be only partially effective in addressing the problems of adoption: this is due, on the one hand, to the specificity of each convention and its exclusive nature; on the other hand, however, the limitation of the efforts made so far is the intergovernmental nature of the existing decisionmaking structures and processes. the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights now provide the legal foundations and the political approach is naturally changing. the protection and well-being of children are officially among the pillars of the union's safeguarded rights. that is the basis of today's debate and the oral question that has been tabled, a basis on which a wider debate should be based which should be at the heart of this parliament, which should be timely and careful in this parliament and pursued with the tenacity that mrs angelilli has shown. let me remind you of saint-exupéry, who said: "all grown-ups were once children, but few of them remember it".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are having this debate tonight, which is also the result of the intervention of many associations throughout the continent, throughout the european union, which have turned to us to deal with this very delicate subject which we have turned, starting with roberta angelilli, into this question. they have put before us a very simple problem, at least from a dialectical point of view: there are many children in european institutions and there are many families who want to adopt children, but often this intersection does not happen and children continue to remain in institutions and families continue to remain without children. children who, clearly, have our priority, our attention, and therefore need all the necessary care, but children who, when they stay for too many years in institutions, often in these institutions become the target of traffickers of prostitution and of trafficking of organs for the new slave traders. all this is happening at a time when many families would like to open their homes to these children and i am therefore very pleased to have heard the commissioner on the measures he intends to take, to which we should add, however, the possibility of greater cooperation between the states in the field of cooperation, international adoption, together with, of course, supervision of the protection of the adopted child. we therefore call for more streamlined procedures in the interests of families and children, so that in a few years' time these former children and young men who have become men and women will not have to ask why a europe full of potential host families has left them in their condition.
i have signed this question by mrs angelilli because i believe that the european union cannot fail to make the protection of children one of its priorities even more so after lisbon. adoption procedures are, in my view, only the sundial of a social drift which we must tackle by laying down barriers. children, at best, are the object of commercial transactions which are certainly not dignified for any of us, but unfortunately they are also often the victims of exploitation and violence. apart from the phenomenon of so-called ghosts, that is to say, those born in conditions of clandestinity and abandonment who are not registered by the system, there is an uncertain number of children in a state of adoption, to which corresponds a number of couples who request adoption, who do not meet because of questions of legislative interpretation and cumbersome bureaucracy. unicef recently published a study which also reveals alarming data from many european countries. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i have often come across cases of conflict between the rules of the various countries of the union, with negative consequences, sometimes dramatic, for children alone. the complex procedures laid down in many national laws do not always prove to be in the best interests of the child, and the long time taken to implement them is in conflict with the need to promote the child's passage within the first year of life in order to reduce the trauma of uprooting and to avoid a long stay in orphanages, also because we consider that, unfortunately, after a certain age, they are less in demand on the market. in the light of these facts, i believe that it is appropriate to pursue the long-standing need for coordination at european level of national legislation, which would allow, on the one hand, the simplification of procedures for intra-european adoptions and, on the other hand, ensure that the fundamental principles are respected in adoptions from non-european countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner angelilli, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the protection and welfare of children has become one of the fundamental rights which europe is obliged to protect. nevertheless, there are still too many cases of abandonment of children in europe, ending in the best of cases in orphanages. this is a tragic situation which our democracies cannot tolerate. it is therefore necessary to make every effort to prevent this situation from becoming unmanageable by adopting a strategy to raise the level of awareness and to promote the right to adopt children at international level to the maximum extent possible. the first step is to have a clear picture of the situation in all the member states, with constant monitoring, perhaps through the establishment of a permanent observatory on the rights of children. in addition, there is a need for an overall picture of the measures being taken by the european union and those that could be taken to maximise the protection of minors that must be taken by european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 and 14 january a referendum was held at the fiat plant in mirafiori, calling on the workers and employees to vote for or against the plan to revive the turin plant. the plan is based on a new collective agreement which affects the fundamental rights of workers, such as the right to sickness, to strike and even to an eight-hour break on an assembly line. the referendum is illegitimate because the ceo sergio marchionne threatened the workers that, in case of a "no" vote, the company would abandon italian production and move everything elsewhere. this strategy of fear, of a capitalism on the downward spiral without rules and without rights, has had the support of the government and even of a large part of the democratic party, an opposition party with roots in the italian communist party. the only unions to oppose were fiom and cgil and were expelled from the trade union representation. nevertheless, the "yes" won with only 54% of the votes. with this agreement, the italy of rights is set back by several decades. it is right that europe should know and take this into account.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission very much welcomes this timely report, as food prices are rising sharply, mainly due to erratic weather conditions and natural disasters, but also to increases in energy prices that impact on the cost of food. therefore i want to thank the rapporteur, mrs sârbu, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for their efforts. food security is fundamental for the almost one billion people around the world that still suffer from hunger, but it is also important for vulnerable populations across europe. for them, the common agricultural policy makes a real difference. the – sometimes criticised – cap has managed to provide eu citizens with food at affordable prices and has ensured food security in europe. this must continue. food security is identified as a central issue in the communication on the common agricultural policy towards 2020 that was adopted on 18 november by the commission. the report that mrs sârbu has put in front of us underlines the issue of excessive price volatility, which is closely linked to food security because of the impact it has both on farmers and on consumers. the commission fully agrees that there is a need to tackle excessive price volatility. we must collectively look for better regulation, supervision and transparency to address market issues, and this requires not only better financial regulations but also substantially improved transparency on the market. the report recommends the creation of a global food system. not an easy subject. we have had experiences in the past of commodity boards. they have proved not to be successful and therefore this topic undoubtedly requires more detailed debate. it also requires analysis of the experience we have gained, for example from the eur 1 billion food facility adopted by the commission in 2008, and also from the work that the commission undertakes closely with the fao and the world food programme to ensure that bumper stocks are pre-positioned in order to soften the blow of rising food prices. all these efforts can be developed when the g20 looks closely into the food stocks issue, and you can be assured that the european commission will be an active participant in the related deliberations in the coming weeks. the report has made a call, echoed by many of you here this evening, for a strong agricultural and rural development policy in europe, capable of ensuring food security for all, with the support of research and innovation to face the challenges of producing more with the fewer resources we have and will have. the commission fully agrees with this. there is no more relevant instrument to fulfil these objectives than a strong common agricultural policy able to guarantee the economic and environmental competitiveness of agriculture and – as some of you said – able to bring young people into the agricultural sector of europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 18 january 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food security is a political priority both at community and world level. the process of globalisation of the food chain constantly brings new challenges and sometimes risks to consumers' health and interests. one of the main challenges facing the european union is the development of agricultural and food reforms to meet the needs of the world's population. according to recent data, food demand is continuously growing and is expected to increase by around 40% by 2050, resulting in an increase in food demand estimated to be twice the current needs. to cope with the growing world demand for agricultural and food products, member states and the union will be called upon to ensure food security. to achieve this, the eu will have to ensure the safety of food products, taking into account their specificities, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to all possible measures to improve the training of young people for work and to create job opportunities for graduates in the field of food safety, with the main objective of contributing to employment in the agricultural sector.
in writing. mr president, i share the approach taken in the resolution adopted in this house today: food security is a fundamental human right, which is realized when everyone has, at all times, physical and economic access to adequate, healthy and nutritious food. in the european union, some 80 million people still live below the poverty line, many of whom are helped through food aid programmes. proper nutrition must be a key factor in our health, and there are still too many doubts about gmos from a part of the scientific community. i therefore opposed the openings in the text for gmos, particularly where there is a plan to extend the approval process for the import of genetically modified food from third countries into the european union. for the sake of consistency, i believe that our farmers cannot be deprived of the use of a technique which is then tolerated in the production of imports. i welcome measures to encourage young farmers, who today account for only 7%, with set-up premiums, reduced interest rates on loans and other incentives from the member states through rural development budgets, confident that european agricultural production can remain at the current high levels of quality and safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, i can only say that i am satisfied with a presidency which has shown that it is able to manage the european agenda in a pragmatic and efficient manner, even in a difficult time. from the first reading of the revision of the directive on the prevention of late payment by public authorities, which is crucial for the future of the business system, to the revision of the financial supervision package, the belgian presidency has shown its concreteness and dynamism. i could go on with examples, but i prefer to draw conclusions on what can be learned from a presidency which has concluded its budget in a positive way. firstly, a realistic work programme, a dynamic negotiating capacity geared to compromise and, finally, the full involvement of the european institutions, starting with parliament, and an approach to the issues to be tackled that is free from national boundaries and interests. i hope that this presidency will be an example for others to follow. for the moment, my sincere congratulations to her.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you made some important statements in your speech, but in reality you will be remembered mainly as the prime minister of a state which has not been able to form a government 219 days after the elections. you see, i had a bad opinion of you, and i certainly changed it over time, because on the day of your inauguration i asked you, as president of the semester, what your position would be on those facts, which i considered very serious, that happened against the catholic church in your country, facts that were later condemned by the same judiciary, searches declared null. she didn't answer me. i was sorry to hear that, because i believe that a president should be president of all. if a question is asked, he must try to answer somehow and, with courage, make a choice: i am not saying that we should be in favour of the directive, but that we should be in favour of the directive. she didn't. today i can say that you have done a good job with your presidency. perhaps if he had been a little more "on a par" with all of us from the start, we would have had a better relationship.
in writing. on 31 december, the presidency ended a rather colourless term, described by some as dull and weak: it was what we could have imagined from a government like the belgian one, which has in fact not existed for eight months. the belgian politicians have failed to formulate a political plan for their country, which is suffering from an unprecedented institutional crisis. i do not see how they could have governed with foresight and vision of the future such a complex machine, which is also very fragile and unstable today, as the european union. the belgian presidency was supposed to put europe on the road to recovery from the economic and financial crisis, while we find ourselves dealing with speculation which still today threatens the very existence of the single currency. it was the belgian presidency that gave a strong impetus to further enlargement of the eu's borders. as we have seen in recent years, the entry of economically weak countries has complicated the life of the european institutions and has weakened europe as a whole, which is even less able than in the past to take on the internal problems of any new member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the building sector in europe is clear from the stihler report. we could not help but address the problems affecting 12 million citizens directly employed in this sector. the report by mrs stihler is a useful tool for breaking down the national administrative and technical barriers which prevent the marketing of construction products within the european union and for continuing to build a single market in this sector. i agree with the recognition of small and mediumsized enterprises in the building sector, as well as the particular attention paid to the problem of the need to recycle construction products, a topic of crucial importance in the fight against climate change. however, i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the issue of the health and safety of workers employed in the construction industry. the guidelines set out by the rapporteur in this connection are useful, but they are not sufficient. it is our duty to address and develop these proposals further in the immediate future, ensuring a high level of protection for workers employed in the construction industry. the tragedy of white deaths at work is a subject which concerns the whole of europe, and i hope that our work will help to remedy this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. just think, its contribution represents over 40% of international humanitarian aid. through its humanitarian policy, the european union is demonstrating its commitment to the people of third countries who need help and are in extremely vulnerable situations. the humanitarian consensus, signed on 18 december by the presidents of the council of the european union, the european parliament and the european commission, is a major step forward in this direction. i would remind you that the commitments resulting from the consensus must be binding on both the member states and the european commission. in recent years, we have seen an increasing involvement of non-humanitarian actors in the response to humanitarian crises. it is essential that political, military and humanitarian actors sharing the same operational environment learn to know each other better and to dialogue, respecting and not compromising each other's roles and mandates. it is clear that the use of civil protection means will have to be in accordance with the international directives as set out in the european consensus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the report adopted today by mrs striffler, for which i am grateful and congratulating her, is a communication designed to increase the effectiveness and coherence of humanitarian aid. the european parliament today calls on the union to work more closely together to reach a consensus aimed at strengthening the collective response to humanitarian crises and in particular to vigorously defend full respect for international humanitarian law. we must therefore ensure that aid and humanitarian workers can reach the people in need even better, and since these have increased in the last period we must, through the commission or through bilateral programmes, be able to do even more than has been done so far. if the needs are enormous, the distribution of aid becomes increasingly difficult and even risky and dangerous in the increasingly complex international environment. in accordance with these requirements, this agreement therefore promotes a european consensus that union aid is unequivocally based on the humanitarian principles of neutrality, independence and impartiality and must be provided quickly and effectively to victims of crises on the basis of identified needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the exponential increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, together with the multiplication of complex crises, puts us face to face with a worsening of violations of international humanitarian law and a shrinking of the humanitarian space. the recent tragedies in haiti and pakistan have once again demonstrated the need to strengthen the european union's instruments for dealing with natural disasters. i agree with the general approach of the report and, in particular, with the statement that the european union must be a tireless promoter of humanitarian principles. the external action of the european union shall be governed by the treaty of lisbon; it is necessary that it reflects the political weight of the union and its influence as the main international donor. i voted in favour of mrs striffler's report because i think it is right to emphasize the need to strengthen the implementation of the consensus and its action plan, together with the need to ensure coordination and burden sharing at world level, while taking into account the regional responsibilities of countries with the capacity to make a substantial contribution to humanitarian aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food security is a basic human right every day and it is only realised in practice when everyone has, at all times, physical, social and economic access to sufficient nutrition. the new common agricultural policy of the european union will have to take account of these new requirements: it will therefore need to be able to respond in a clear and unequivocal manner to the challenges posed by food security and other factors, in particular climate change, the economic crisis, the maintenance of territorial balance within the union. we need to promote not only the competitiveness of our products, but also traditional agriculture, small farms, organic farming and local distribution. these farming models have always made, and continue to make, a valuable contribution to food security because they often represent the most effective way of using land in different geographical regions of the european union through the use of methods that have been specifically developed in different regions and over long periods of time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food security and food security for the people remain the central challenges of agriculture, not only in europe but also in the world. i am very pleased with the content of this report, especially since food security is recognized as a fundamental human right. the objective of food security can only be achieved if two important issues are seriously addressed: market and price volatility and the depletion of food resources. europe must be able to intervene with common and effective measures for food security, to avoid the still existing strong asymmetries in safety standards between eu and non-eu products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these weeks the various parliamentary committees dealing with the subject of the community's agricultural policy have been dealing with this subject, the subject of the reform we will have after 2013. in the basic elements of agriculture it is always clear that food safety is an integral part of it. this is why this consideration must be evaluated in the light of the measure we are voting on today, where safety is defined as a fundamental right and therefore as such must be protected in every possible way. this attention, mr president, must be exercised both in times of emergency, such as the one linked to the dioxin scandal we are experiencing these days, dioxin discovered in animal feed, but also, and above all, in ensuring a normal production process which respects the entire production chain, the quality of the farmers' work, the quality of the environment and also of marketing and, therefore, of consumers. this is a measure which this parliament has taken as part of a series of measures to improve agriculture and i am pleased about that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after having voted with conviction in favour of this important report, i would like to draw particular attention to paragraph 35 of the opinion of the committee on the environment, which, in view of the importance of the european food safety authority in assessing all the risks associated with the food chain in the context of measures to protect the public and health, calls for all member states to set up equivalent national bodies to cooperate with the european agency. as the recent serious incidents in germany show, it is necessary that each state establishes a national food safety body. it is surprising that the italian government, after having set up the agency, has changed its mind for budgetary reasons. i believe that food security should not be limited by budgetary constraints.
in writing. - as the proposal in question was carefully considered by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which jointly considered the text to be an act of codification, i.e. a mere enrichment of the existing text, i supported the report by mr jiří maštálka with my vote in favour.
in writing. - in italy, just yesterday, a study was presented which showed that the firms which have best withstood the crisis at the moment have been those which have strengthened their assets. in particular, according to this study prepared by a well-known italian university on behalf of the most vibrant business association, mergers have been the main instrument of strengthening. it is no coincidence that special financing operations, including mergers, accompany restructuring and the search for efficiency in all production sectors. it is therefore the task of the european institutions, in a single market context, to define rules which guarantee all the actors involved and allow the most virtuous companies to compete at their best, free from regulatory uncertainties, bureaucratic constraints and obligations arising from mere misunderstandings. a modern, liberal and efficient economy, such as i believe we must have, needs specific legislation for mergers, provided that, like the proposed directive, it is light and non-intrusive and protects the freedoms and rights of those who may be harmed by these operations.
in writing. - in assessing the draft legislative resolution on mergers of public limited liability companies, i have taken account of the following legislative acts: the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council, the common position defined at first reading on 17 june 2008, articles 294 and 50 tfeu, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament, the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, articles 86 and 55 of its rules of procedure and, finally, the report of the committee on legal affairs. on this basis i have wished to be consistent with parliament's position at first reading as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, especially in view of the fact that it represents a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. the euro-mediterranean agreements are increasingly being incorporated into european conventional activity. in this case, therefore, i intend to approve the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, in respect of which parliament itself has given its consent for the conclusion of the protocol. my approval is strongly supported by a number of acts such as the draft council decision, the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, the request for approval submitted by the council pursuant to articles 217 and 218 (6) second subparagraph, point (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, articles 81, 90, 8 and 46 (1) of the ep's rules of procedure, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs. in view of all this, i support the eu's cooperative approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the economic and monetary union of west africa on certain aspects of air services. this agreement, negotiated by the commission, is intended to replace certain provisions in the existing rules governing bilateral agreements concluded between the eu member states and the west african economic and monetary union (waemu) member states. among the most important new features of the agreement voted on today, i would like to mention the provisions introduced to avoid discrimination between air carriers in the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carriers concerned have been granted an exemption from the notification requirement.
in writing. the community has exclusive competence in external air transport policy, which is traditionally governed by bilateral air service agreements concluded between member states and third countries. in june 2003, the commission opened negotiations with third countries with a view to replacing certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with community agreements. among these, one agreement stands out, replacing the 47 existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and the west african economic and monetary union. the main points of the agreement are: the designation clause replacing the bilateral agreement which avoids discrimination between european union air carriers; the taxation of aviation fuel in general in the eu; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of the competition rules to commercial agreements between airlines. the agreement negotiated by the commission was provisionally approved on 30 november 2009. i am also very much in favour of renegotiating these agreements, given the court of justice's case law, which is based on the exclusive competence of the community, both because they are geared towards the increasingly indispensable community sovereignty and because this draft decision is in line with the eu's competition and budgetary rules.
in writing. the development towards the liberalization of construction products in the building sector is one of the most sensitive issues for small and medium-sized enterprises. given the widespread importance of the building sector in all member states, i believe that further liberalisation is a necessary step forward. i particularly welcome the removal of certain bureaucratic constraints and the necessary traceability of goods containing substances potentially harmful to human health. i therefore support mrs stihler's recommendation.
in writing. - i supported mrs stihler's report with a view to the adoption of the regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products, because i consider the construction sector to be very important for the european economy. in this context, achieving a high level of harmonisation of construction product rules is an objective which europe must aim to achieve in the short term. and indeed, at a time like the present, when there is a need to stimulate economic growth, we cannot overlook the strategic role of this sector. the aim of the proposal is to ensure accurate and reliable information on construction products in relation to their performance, so that we can rely on safe buildings constructed with materials which respect human health. i also believe that it is essential to make progress on safety at work in order to protect the millions of european citizens employed in this sector and to ensure that they are adequately protected.
in writing. the construction sector is one of the key european sectors for both employment and the development of our small and mediumsized enterprises. it is therefore essential to support a regulation setting harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products to ensure the safety of the materials used and the health of workers. physical and health damage also continues to be reported for citizens living in daily contact with hazardous substances, such as asbestos, used in the construction of urban buildings. i therefore support the sthiler regulation, which was voted on today at second reading, because it underlines the importance, in a globalised world, of the need to introduce common rules for the labelling of substances and products used, which can thus guarantee safety and reliability and at the same time reduce costs for producers, especially smes.
in writing. the proposal for a parliament and council regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products is designed to ensure the free movement of construction products within the internal market. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation precisely because ensuring accurate and reliable information (through the ce marking of products on the market) on construction products is a further step towards a competitive free market and capable of protecting small and mediumsized enterprises. as construction products are intermediate products of a final work, the harmonization of new european rules guarantees the safety and quality of the work, puts all construction companies on the same level, improves the control of materials already on the market and ultimately achieves better transparency of the trade in construction products.
in writing. − there are still too many barriers to trade in the construction sector in the eu, with which states justify the technical rules they have put in place to restrict the free movement of goods and services. the fast-growing sector generates 10% of gdp, 50.5% of gross fixed capital formation, employs 12 million eu citizens and is 92% made up of smes, the backbone of our economy. i therefore believe that it is necessary to introduce measures to harmonize the market in these products and to guarantee a high level of safety and health for workers. in the light of the recession which has caused serious problems in the sector, such as the bankruptcy of companies, liberalization measures are necessary to ensure the economic survival of enterprises and to preserve jobs. the proposal for a regulation is designed to simplify, update and replace the construction products directive in the light of changed circumstances, for example as regards market surveillance. it also wants to give greater protection in the areas of ce marking, dangerous substances, national product contact points, independence and transparency, health and safety, electronic communication.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. in view of the importance of the sector, it is essential to have measures in place for the marketing of construction products within the eu. according to the european committee for standardization (cen), the construction sector, which accounts for 10% of gdp and 50.5% of gross fixed capital formation, is one of the most important in europe. this proposal for a regulation lays down the conditions for harmonization of the marketing of construction products. by introducing common rules for labelling, it aims to increase the guarantees of product safety and reliability and at the same time to reduce costs for producers, particularly smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there are still too many 'restrictions' on trade in the building sector in europe. the revision of this directive should help to remove trade barriers, while protecting the jobs of companies in the sector which remain exposed to the global economic crisis. new specific measures are envisaged to verify the recycling of these products, promoting their use in order to meet eu climate change objectives. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. finally, the demand for the gradual digitisation of documentation in place of paper copies is intended to make the construction products market even more 'unique'.
in writing. - although the introduction to the regulation contains general statements which cannot be accepted, in particular on the free and full movement of services in the building sector, because until the cost of labour is harmonized between the various member states there will be risks of unfair competition, our vote will be in favour. the reason is that the substance of the measure deals exclusively with the regulation of the marketing of products for the construction sector, which in this period of economic recession has had very serious repercussions with the bankruptcy of many companies and the loss of jobs. the proposal provides for the harmonisation and labelling of goods containing dangerous substances, simplifies, updates and replaces existing rules in order to remove some regulatory obstacles to the benefit of operators and small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, humanitarian aid is now taking on a greater dimension and role than in the past. different development rates and growing inequality in the distribution of opportunities and resources, both on a geographical, social and generational basis, the increase in climate change (partly attributable to humans) with a consequent increase in natural disasters, the growth of environmental pollution, the imbalance of anthropic pressure concentrated in large urban areas and the imbalance of population growth in some areas of the planet lead to the increase in humanitarian disasters in which solidarity becomes a fundamental element for the recovery of the minimum conditions of survival and the dignity of people. in this context, if humanitarian aid is to be provided in the interests of the people affected by the emergency, it is necessary that any eu foreign policy intervention, which has yet to be built, should not be divided into areas of influence and interest of each member state, but should take on its own community dimension.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote in favour of the striffler report is dictated by the fact that there is still a great need to stress the importance, and therefore the delicacy, of such an issue. the european parliament has voted to reiterate the need for the european union's objective to be to defend the human rights of neutrality, impartiality and independence. in the field of solidarity, there is never a perfectly ready or excellent plan; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities is based on the principle of proportionality. for my part, i will continue to support this modus vivendi, including within the committee on budgets, of which i am a member, by supporting all the measures to increase financial aid to support those activities more specifically aimed at protecting these important rights, so that the european union can continue its efforts to help and support the most needy sections of the population.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, contributing over 40% of official international humanitarian assistance. through its humanitarian policy, the eu is demonstrating its commitment to the people of countries in need of aid. since the eu signed the humanitarian consensus, many actions have been taken to cooperate in this area, in order to optimise its effectiveness and promote the fundamental principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and working for those most in need. however, it seems that the humanitarian consensus is still not recognised, and more effort is needed to increase visibility. i think that in a sector as delicate as humanitarian aid, it is important to be aware of how the context has changed over the years, remembering the significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters. i therefore believe that efforts to reduce disaster risk should be stepped up and that provision should be made for support for the capacities of the communities themselves. in order to ensure that humanitarian aid can be steadily brought to its full extent, we must continue to advocate the protection of humanitarian space. i hope that by voting in favour of the striffler report we can proceed to the adoption of a concrete action plan.
in writing. − the eu, the world's largest humanitarian donor, provides more than 40% of international humanitarian assistance. the humanitarian consensus signed on 18 december 2007 by the council, parliament and the european commission, based on a five-year action plan, commits the eu and its member states to close cooperation in this area. action 33 provides for a mid-term review of the action plan to address the lack of recognition of the humanitarian sector, profound climate change, the multiplication of complex crises and the increase in violence. the creation of a european rapid reaction capability (european civil protection force), the idea of michel barnier, is therefore recommended in order to optimise the available instruments, given the objective of achieving the immediate mobilisation of all the necessary means through enhanced coordination. in the light of the data presented and the lisbon treaty introducing a genuine humanitarian aid policy in the eu, i fully agree that a mid-term review is needed to strengthen the action plan on the promotion of humanitarian principles, the delivery of humanitarian aid, clarification of the use of military and civilian means, disaster risk reduction and strengthening the link between emergency aid and development.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. the european union, comprising the european commission and the member states, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. its contribution represents over 40% of official international humanitarian assistance. through its humanitarian policy, the european union is demonstrating its commitment to the people of third countries who need help in situations of extreme vulnerability. it is important to emphasise that the granting of aid must be based solely on the identified needs and the degree of vulnerability and that the quality and quantity of aid are determined first of all by the initial assessment, which still needs to be improved, in particular as regards the level of application of the vulnerability criteria, especially with regard to women, minors and persons with disabilities. effective and continuous involvement and, where possible, participation of beneficiaries in the management of aid is also essential to ensure the quality of the humanitarian response, particularly in the event of a long-lasting crisis.
in writing. − the european union, together with the commission and the member states, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, contributing over 40% of official international assistance. in 2009 alone, the european commission provided aid to some 115 million people in over 70 countries, for a total of €950 million. through its policies, the eu is demonstrating its tangible commitment to people living in extremely vulnerable situations. our aim is to be able to plan for a strengthened coordination, both civil and military, capable of responding more and more effectively, especially in the face of natural disasters. these tragic events are occurring with increasing frequency and have caused hundreds of thousands of deaths worldwide in recent years. particular attention must be paid to women and children, especially refugees and displaced persons, as violations of international humanitarian law against them are increasing. in addition to being more effective in intervention, much needs to be done in active and passive prevention and communities at higher risk need to be better prepared for these types of phenomena, promoting all sustainable development policies aimed at minimizing damage.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture plays a strategic role in the development of communities. the classification of the products concerned as a primary sector of production corresponds not only to the historical sequence of their development but above all to the role they play in the stability of societies and their economies. a balanced agricultural production must pay attention not only to the quantities produced but also and above all to the quality of the products, so that they promote the healthy development of people. in this context, food safety plays a strategic role and its protection, especially in relation to typical and local products, increases the opportunities for widespread development in the territory. the positive correlation between food safety and the quality and health of agricultural products also includes the strengthening of their eco-compatibility, with particular attention to the domino effect of the uncontrolled introduction of gmos, so that there is sufficient certainty in advance about the medium- and long-term consequences that such products may have on local health and economies.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs sârbu. just as we are about to reform the common agricultural policy post-2013, today's vote shows the direction parliament intends to take: to ensure a secure supply of affordable food, the eu needs a strong common agricultural policy that discourages speculation on food commodities and encourages young people to become farmers. i think it is important to stress that the cap of the future must also provide citizens with access to an adequate food supply, allow the dissemination of nutritional information and improve the conditions for the implementation of programmes such as 'milk in schools' and 'fruit in schools'. the commission is also being asked to consider how to implement a 'targeted global food reserve system' with emergency reserves to fight hunger and reserves to be used to regulate commodity prices. particular attention should also be paid to the subject of gmos: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. - the achievement of food security and food independence in europe is fundamental, and that is why i have spoken in favour of this. i welcome the reference to an ambitious vision of the cap. we must remember that the common agricultural policy is fundamental to supporting farmers who, in addition to producing raw materials and public goods, maintain and care for our territories. to meet the new food challenges of the future, we must become self-sufficient producers, importing less and less agricultural products from third countries, which not only do not comply with environmental and health regulations, but also do not respect the rights of workers.
in writing. − improving food security is one of the challenges facing cap reform after 2013. the ability to ensure sufficient food supplies for its citizens must take into account the significant increase in global food demand expected by 2050. in this context, it is essential that the european union continue to guarantee this fundamental human right within and beyond its borders, by seeking to increase agricultural productivity while ensuring a secure and affordable supply and the protection of europe's rural environment, which is now essential. we cannot allow financial speculation to continue to cause uncontrolled price rises and volatility in the global food markets. to safeguard european production, the contractual relations between producers and modern distribution must be rebalanced. we must not underestimate that inequalities in purchasing power, anti-competitive practices and lack of transparency are often the basis of market distortions with a heavy impact on the competitiveness of the food supply chain as a whole.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the sârbu report because i want to ensure a constant but also a secure food supply. this is the main role that society gives to agriculture. food security is a fundamental human right through which everyone should have, at all times, physical, social and economic access to sufficient, healthy and nutritious food to enable them to lead an active life. this is a right which is often opposed in some parts of the world and not guaranteed in others, due to a number of causes and factors which seriously jeopardize the health of consumers. at a time like the present, marked by the debate on the cap post 2013, this report can provide some guidelines on the ethical, social and economic role that agriculture must play for the foreseeable future, by pointing out the risk factors that threaten it and by seizing the opportunities to make it the stronghold in the global fight against hunger.
in writing. the rapporteur stresses the importance of agriculture in relation to the new food challenges. the fao has stated that food production will have to increase by at least 70 percent, as the world's population will exceed 9 billion by 2050. so food security continues to require a strong cap. the main objectives of the cap were: increase agricultural productivity, help farmers achieve a fair standard of living, stabilise markets and ensure a secure supply of affordable food. however, its success has led to unintentional overproduction and surpluses that have distorted the market and raised environmental concerns. the new cap will therefore have to improve the food system by increasing productivity while encouraging environmentally sustainable food production. the report stresses that it is essential that cap financing reflects its ambitious vision and policy objectives. the cap must be maintained at its present level by ensuring sustainable food prices and, above all, a decent income for farmers with the aim of ensuring food security. improving and strengthening food safety controls in the union and in third countries is essential and that is why i am expressing my favourable opinion of the resolution.
in writing. − food security is a human right and the common agricultural policy must aim at easy access to food for all, taking into account population growth, climate change, high energy costs and constraints posed by limited natural resources. i share and support the rapporteur, mrs sârbu, in her project to make the new cap, after 2013, capable of responding to the needs and challenges of food security. it is therefore important to encourage the diversification of agricultural production, ranging from large retail chains to traditional farming and small farms; to provide credit to young farmers and to encourage the development of food stock management programmes which are useful for world trade and for reducing prices on international markets. but i am against the development of gmos and their use as feed variants until their safety for farm animals and european consumers is established.
in writing. − food security is a fundamental human right that is realized when everyone has physical, social and economic access to sufficient nutrition. despite the production of safe and sufficient food, a significant percentage of the world's population cannot afford the basic food products they need; about 900 million people in the world suffer from hunger because of extreme poverty. the accessibility of food remains a basic problem to be addressed. food security continues to require a strong common agricultural policy that can increase productivity, stabilise markets, but above all ensure a secure supply of food at affordable prices. however, this objective cannot be achieved without addressing market and price volatility. as the subject of food is very important, i voted in favour of the sârbu report, and also approved a faster process in the eu for the import of new variants of genetically modified feed, taking into account the possibility of authorising production techniques applied in third countries. i also vote in favour of the presence of small amounts of gmos in products imported into the eu.
in writing. − food security is a fundamental right that is hampered by limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change. according to fao, production will have to increase by 70 percent by 2050, with some 900 million people worldwide suffering from hunger and 16 percent of the population living below the poverty line in europe alone. a strong common agricultural policy is essential and the cap has been geared towards this, but reform of the cap is needed to create a 'sustainable cap' on the one hand and to improve food security on the other. this can only be achieved by addressing the problem of price volatility (caused by speculation) and the depletion of food resources. the text also calls for the revision of existing financial instruments legislation and the creation of a global food security system to help the global market in the event of price surges and protectionism. the new cap after 2013 will have to be ready for all this and that is why i support the text in favour of competitiveness, traditional agriculture, access to land and credit for young people, greater integration of food and energy.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague mrs sârbu. to ensure a secure supply of affordable food, the eu needs a strong common agricultural policy (cap) that discourages speculation on food commodities and encourages young people to become farmers. the cap of tomorrow will have to do more for young farmers. only 7% of european farmers are under 35 years old, while the eu will need 4.5 million farmers over the next 10 years. i therefore ask that existing measures to attract young people to agriculture, such as installation premiums and reduced interest rates on loans, be strengthened. in addition, in order to ensure that existing financial instruments help farmers to cope with crises, rather than helping speculators to cause extreme price volatility, i call for a review of european legislation on financial products to make trading more transparent and i urge the european commission to urgently introduce strong and permanent measures to put a clear stop to speculation and to counter the instability of food markets.
in writing. − food security is a fundamental human right and can only be achieved when the energy needs of a person can be met to enable him to lead a healthy and active life. in particular, in view of the revision of the common agricultural plan foreseen for 2013, the support to be granted to european farmers must always allow them to fully comply with food safety and environmental standards. despite the efficiency of european production, some 80 million people still live below the poverty line today, many of them helped by food aid programmes. a strong cap is capable not only of preserving the economic role of farmers as food producers, but also of ensuring the livelihood and employment of over 28 million citizens employed in rural areas of europe. even in the light of the economic crisis, it will be necessary to maintain direct payments to farmers after 2013 in order to stabilise their income and help them to withstand market volatility. specific measures will be taken to encourage young people to enter the agricultural sector by making it easier for them to obtain loans, by promoting vocational training and specific technical education, and by disseminating 'good practice' in the agricultural sector at european level.
in writing. - apart from the dubious citation of data on the increase in world population, which does not take account of the recent reduction in birth rates in several non-european countries, food security is certainly linked to the good use of agriculture. it is therefore clear that a cap which aims to increase agricultural activity while respecting quality and the environment and helping farmers to achieve an adequate standard of living is desirable. the energy policy, which is also concerned with the use of biofuels in agriculture, is another subject which needs to be studied more closely, since it is a production which competes with food production. the conclusion of the report is also acceptable, we cannot think of reducing the budget for the cap.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, directive 77/2001/ec defines renewable sources in order to identify those for which public incentives are eligible. renewable sources shall exclude the incineration of the non-biodegradable part of the waste. since 1992, italy has encouraged the construction of incinerators, which are scientifically harmful to health and the environment, by increasing the energy bill of citizens and are therefore considered by the european union as a residual option for integrated waste management. with reference to these incentives, there have been two infringement procedures and, despite formal legislative interventions, in italy the incineration of waste is still encouraged today as being assimilated to renewables, one of them being the case of acerra. i realize that you may find it difficult to remember the details of the situation in cip 6, which is why i have tabled a written question. i would ask you to confirm that the incineration of non-biodegradable waste cannot be encouraged as a renewable source and that there is no derogation in this respect. i would also like to know whether it is not inconsistent that the waste directive sets incineration as the last option for waste disposal, whereas directive 77/2001 encourages incineration as a renewable source. does the commission intend to review this matter?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive was initially critical. the commission's discussions in committee and in the trilogue reached agreement on a balanced overall text, which takes account of the requirements of quality and safety of healthcare, the general principles of reimbursement, prior authorisation, cross-border cooperation for the treatment of rare diseases and e-health services. the aim sought is to recognise the right of all patients to cross-border healthcare, avoiding health tourism. the costs incurred by the health service for the treatment of a national of another member state must, as a matter of fact, be borne by the patient's state of origin. we would also have liked to have included an obligation for member states to ensure essential levels of health care, but that was not possible. our vote, given the work of mediation to improve the text, will be in favour, as will the other text under discussion concerning the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, a preparatory text for the presentation of a legislative proposal aimed at creating an integration between the various existing policies. the common objective of both measures is to underline the need for better coordination between member states in the exclusive interest of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of legal wrangling, tomorrow we will finally vote on the report which will provide a secure legislative basis for european citizens who have to go abroad every year to get appropriate medical care. this will allow all patients, not just the most informed or the most fortunate, to benefit from rights that have already been recognised over the years in the judgments of the court of justice of the european union. the opening of national contact points will mean that access to crossborder healthcare will no longer be a leap in the dark, where, until now, patients, already debilitated by illness, have unfortunately often had to face bureaucratic, linguistic and economic problems. as regards hospital treatment, the member state of affiliation may require a prior authorization from the patient who decides to seek treatment abroad, which is obviously necessary to safeguard the stability of its health system. on some points more could perhaps have been done to protect patients, such as the advance notification system which will allow member states to advance medical expenses, but only on a voluntary basis. finally, let me say how excited i am to be taking part in a debate which, in a completely cross-cutting way, has only one common denominator, namely the priority of putting an end to the ordeal of thousands of patients across europe, and finally this moment seems to have arrived.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly an organic measure, and we must give the rapporteur and those who have helped to define it a hearty applause. crossborder healthcare means breaking down borders and giving patients freedom of choice, which is closely linked to the freedom of movement that characterizes the european union. health mobility that is now being recognised, both for rare diseases and for highly specialised diseases that specifically require a rapid response. the timeliness and appropriateness of the provision of health care make it possible to assert a right to health; the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of healthcare services for the elderly. and why not, this measure in prospect can be a prerequisite for a european-type accreditation, with high guarantees of technological and personal standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, access to crossborder care in europe has so far been limited by long waiting times, a complex system of reimbursement and a difficult identification of responsibilities for clinical care after crossborder care. the directive which the european parliament is about to vote on is an important step forward because it clarifies these administrative aspects and improves cooperation between the member states, while also strengthening the standards of quality and safety of care. the establishment of national information centres will enable patients to know about the medical care available in another member state, the obligations to be fulfilled and the complaint and appeal procedures. this is an opportunity that is no longer based on economic possibilities, but on a real right to a more informed choice.
in writing. the standardisation of healthcare in europe will take into account the quality of the services offered, which must be uniform for citizens of the 27 member states regardless of population, and the economic feasibility of completing the internal market, including in healthcare. i call on the president and my colleagues in this house to ensure that europe's involvement does not stop with the approval of this initiative, but also calls for action at local level, first of all for the acceptance of the measure in the individual states. it is not just the commission's responsibility to ensure that the community's internal market is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies. i am thinking of an appropriate data collection mechanism, which a border region such as friuli venezia giulia needs in order to optimise cooperation both within the national territory, especially now that fiscal federalism is becoming closer for our country, and with those neighbouring territories, such as some of the neighbouring regions of slovenia, with which an important constructive dialogue on the management of health services has long since begun. i also think that there should be adequate training for staff whose patients and skills will have to be increasingly global in a reality that is no longer just european.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i too share the misgivings about the logic of combining this question with the previous report, but the important thing for me is that this house today deals with the subject which is contained in the question i have put on behalf of the committee on petitions. this question raises a case of denial of justice to a small european company for the inertia unfortunately consumed by the commission from 1997 to the present, as also argued by the legal affairs committee which was asked for an opinion by the committee i chair. the case concerned a medical device, specifically an inhaler for asthmatics, which was patented in 1990 and was regularly placed on the market. this product falls within the framework of directive 93/42/eec, which requires conformity to the requirements to be self-certified by the manufacturer and then gives the national authorities the power to check the conformity by means of monitoring and sample control activities. the product, which had been successfully marketed for six years, i.e. until 1996, and in the absence of specific complaints and findings which had never been documented for more than 15 years, was subject to inspection by the upper bavarian state government authority, which asked the magdeburg commission to review the authorisation granted to this company. in december of the same year, the committee, the minister of health of saxony-anhalt, carried out this verification and concluded the procedure by declaring the product to be in full compliance with the regulatory requirements, raising, inter alia, at the end of this procedure, a doubt as to the merits of the request made by the upper bavarian government authority and inviting it, if doubts remained, to initiate the safeguard procedure provided for by the said directive. the next year saw a series of undocumented activities, of which we only know the details, and then in 1997 the federal minister for health suddenly took the decision to withdraw the product from the market without any notification to the manufacturer. the procedure was initiated at the end of 1997 by the ministry - the procedure under article 8 of the directive mentioned above - but it ended in a dead end because there was no information and the stage of consultation with the producer was not started. in the absence of any further information, the manufacturer, who in 2003 considered that this silence could be interpreted as a clear refusal of the unstated claims made by the german authorities, put the product back on the market in mid-2003. unfortunately, in 2005, the german authorities issued a new withdrawal order for this product, again without a notification. it should be noted that, despite repeated requests, no information has been found to date to explain why the product was withdrawn. so , what ? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment in the case of a producer who has been unable to obtain a reply for more than 15 years. i would also add that, during the six years of the product's distribution - and there are documents on this which have also been provided to the commission - during the six years of the product's distribution, there have been considerable savings in public health expenditure due to the reduced cost of the product and positive effects for asthma sufferers. in 2008, after all the attempts made with the other authorities had failed, mr klein, the producer, turned to the committee on petitions. the committee is launching the procedure during this parliamentary term and, given the length of time the matter has been in the petition, is also launching an informal consultation with the commissioner, asking for an accelerated response, because the petitioner's request is a request to reconfirm the conformity of the product with european legislation or, in the alternative, at least to have a measure which can be challenged before the court of justice and thus allow him to have justice. that has not happened and, unfortunately, the european commission has once again avoided the questions during the debate in the committee on petitions. that is why the committee unanimously decided to come to the house and ask the commission for clear answers, because this matter, it is undeniable, raises serious doubts about a violation of the charter of fundamental rights and not only because of the commission's inaction but also, and above all, because of the impossibility for the author of the petition, mr klein, to bring a case before a judicial authority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, neurodegenerative diseases, including alzheimer's disease, are a health priority for the european union. the disease in question has serious implications, not just health-related, for those who suffer from it. the costs of direct and informal care are high. alzheimer's disease, in fact, affects not only the people who are affected by it but also all those who care for the sick themselves. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. it is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. with this resolution we renew our commitment to combating a serious disease that continues to affect one in five older people over the age of 85. i believe that effective coordinated action at european level is needed to make further progress in research and in the collection of epidemiological data on this disease. proper coordination between member states can contribute to the sharing of best practice in patient care and to raising awareness among citizens of the importance of prevention and early intervention. investment and cooperation in this field is essential not only to reduce the social costs of these diseases but also and above all to ensure that patients with these diseases have the hope of a more dignified life. i would remind you that dementia, of course, does not only affect the people who have it, but also those around them, such as family members and health-care workers. it is therefore desirable that the european strategy should aim to provide more effective and practical support for those who have to face the daily task of caring, by closing the gaps in vocational training and by adopting awareness-raising campaigns on the meaning of living with alzheimer's.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank mr balčytis for this question, which puts at the heart of our debate issues which parliament will have occasion to address in the coming months with the parliamentary report for which i am responsible. first of all, we must acknowledge that vice-president tajani has given a very strong impetus to the new european tourism policy under the powers of the lisbon treaty, with the communication of last june and the related implementation plan presented a few weeks ago. these two acts focus on small and mediumsized enterprises and the competitiveness of the sector, particularly in the areas of innovation and training. we must act on two lines of funding: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
vice-president of the commission. − a broad safety action plan and implementation of that action plan have been extremely high priorities for the commission, and there really has been tremendous progress: we have substantially reduced the number of accidents in europe. i can tell you that, in my own country, the annual death toll at the beginning of the 1990s was 400, whereas last year it was 78 – and that is, of course, with a tenfold increase in the number of vehicles on the roads. it is a substantial change. this is important, and thank you very much ms ayala sender for reminding us about the cross-border enforcement of traffic violations, which is an extremely important step towards improving road safety. that decision was adopted by the council in december and we will now implement it. i do not believe that increasing the number of legislative acts at european level is a panacea: that whatever problem we have, we must have european legislation. however, while everybody criticises the fact that we have too much eu legislation, in my view this is an issue about which member states are as worried as the european public in general, and if cross-border enforcement of traffic violations can create a european space for road safety, that is very important.
before we begin the agenda, i must inform you that, unfortunately, an italian soldier was killed and another was seriously wounded in a firefight in afghanistan today. the family of the victim, luca sanna, have our condolences. the next item is the commission statement on the situation in haiti one year after the earthquake: humanitarian aid and reconstruction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, it is true that haiti is a special case, different, because when we remember the anniversary of a disaster, we always do so to remember the victims, to learn the lessons better, but in haiti it is different, because there is nothing to remember, nothing is yet past. instead of saying a year since the earthquake, we should say a year of earthquake, seismic earthquake, then earthquake of the aid disorder, health earthquake with cholera, political earthquake with elections that are not very transparent and probably at the most inopportune time and earthquake in some respects also historic, now, with the return of the former dictator as a billionaire tourist. the commission is doing a good job, very good job, i was in haiti last june with the development committee and saw the excellent work and we thank them, but we also need greater political protection with an increased role for the international community to set objectives, deadlines and to manage directly part of the reconstruction. this must be balanced by greater involvement of the local population and ngos, which are often excluded. so less role for national politics and national government institutions in haiti, and more for a so far weak partnership between citizens and the international community.
member of the commission. − madam president, i sincerely thank members of parliament for all their comments this evening. in closing, i would like to make five points. firstly, i agree very much with all speakers who emphasised the governance failure as the most significant factor underlying the problems haiti faces today. that was my first impression after the earthquake and it still stands today: that bad as the earthquake was, it is not haiti’s biggest problem. its biggest problem is the many decades of bad governance that have practically left no social structures and government structures in place to help the haitian people, and that creates a big deficit of trust of the haitian people in their government. i remember very vividly how, when i was there, universally all the haitians i talked to had one message for me consistently, which was ‘do not give money to the government’. now, on the humanitarian side we do not give money; we provide direct assistance. but it does give us pause for thought on the question of how long it will take to rebuild haiti: it will take a very long time because it will not happen without this institutional infrastructure in place. this being said, my second point is that there is actually a positive side to haitian society which has helped the haitian people survive: their own resilience and the resilience of their communities. i met people who lived together: they lost their houses together, they moved to camps together and they have organised in the camps a support system for each other, with some taking responsibility to oversee the kids and to improvise some schooling for them; others taking responsibility to find work; others, actually the women, taking on responsibility for cooking for everybody. that resilience is what gives us some hope today for the future of haiti. this leads on to my third point, which is that our support programmes for haiti have to take into account what the country has and does not have. for that reason, we have on the humanitarian side emphasised cash for work, vouchers programmes, innovations like getting seeds and tools at the community level so that people can actually increase their reliance on themselves. fourthly, i am grateful for the points that were made on what lessons we have learnt from haiti. i would not agree that we were slow to respond: help from the european union was flowing within 24 hours. but i would agree that coordination left room for improvement and that our ability to organise ourselves before a disaster strikes is absolutely essential. in this sense, i am grateful for the point that was made that, based on lessons from haiti, we have indeed moved in the direction of creating a european response capacity and stronger coordination through the european disaster response centre. let me then move to a last point, looking forward on the humanitarian side. what is it that we are very worried about? it is actually the question of protection, especially for women, and of increasing our support for dealing with the tragedy of primarily women-led households stuck in the camps. i can assure you that this year as well as with the funding next year, we will put the emphasis on making sure that this question of protection is addressed and that the eu is there for people. let me in closing just thank everyone once again for their comments and especially those of you who have recognised the sacrifice of the humanitarian workers for the benefit of the people of haiti.
member of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank members of this house for their solidarity and support. i will start with the political dimension. the situation is certainly not easy in haiti, but the high representative is following it very closely and giving all the necessary diplomatic support to ensure that there is stability. the second round of presidential elections will help rebuild credibility if there is no violence around it, so we are also making all the necessary diplomatic efforts; but diplomatic efforts sometimes give immediate results and sometimes need time to produce results. some of you mentioned baby doc’s visit. we can say that whilst anybody can move freely, this was definitely not the best sign of the whole political process. but we should not be somehow misled by this. i think there is a healthy political core in haiti and we should believe in it. our hope is that the people who are elected in the legislative elections and the president will have the necessary capacities to lead the reconstruction of the country. the second point i would like to emphasise is that development cooperation is about hard choices. one choice is do something with high visibility that does not entail a structural change. it would be no problem to finance thousands of doctors from the eu or to build a new university in the name of the eu; it would be visible and everybody would say fine. but what about the insecurity in the streets? we finance security in quite difficult conditions through the government. so if security is provided partially, it is financed by the european union. is it visible? not very much so, because there is no eu label, but i believe it is definite that we have provided for the stability of the country. another point is where to invest money. again, rebuilding the houses would be the easiest political choice, but what help is that if the country is not reconnected, if there is no infrastructure? and infrastructure requires massive investment. roughly speaking, one kilometre of road costs usd 1 million and in haiti even more, because there must be maintenance and also we need to help the local communities through which the road passes. so the costs are very substantial. haiti will not have such funds to invest. strangely enough, in haiti we are the only ones involved in the road infrastructure. normally many other countries participate in road infrastructure, but in haiti we are alone in giving grants for this. it is a difficult choice, but i believe it will help the country to have structural change. a last point which was not raised very much today is the speed of commitment and disbursement of funds. the funds should not be misused and it takes time for budget support. it is not just that the government gives us an account and we just transfer the money. no. we check the account, we know where the disbursements go, so it is quite a procedure. you cannot just immediately send eur 1.2 billion to an account and expect that everything will be sorted out. we also have a responsibility to our taxpayers. the same considerations apply with the roads: we need to launch a tender, we need to be transparent about this and that takes a bit of time. but i believe this time is rightly taken, because it needs only one case of a misuse of funds for the support for haiti’s reconstruction to be damaged in the eyes of european citizens. i can assure you that we will take all the necessary steps in this regard, too. again, i thank you for your support. it was a very helpful and encouraging debate and i believe that we will try to deliver on the issues that you have mentioned today.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the commission on the waste crisis in campania, by margrete auken and eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the green group (o-0188/2010 - b7-0667/2010), - the oral question to the commission on the waste crisis in campania (italy), by judith a. merkies and victor boştinaru, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0208/2010 - b7-0805/2010), - the oral question to the commission on the waste emergency in naples and the campania region and the use of european funds, by mara bizzotto and lorenzo fontana, on behalf of the efd group (o-0209/2010 - b7-0806/2010).
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in campania, and in particular in the city of naples, has been known throughout the world for years, and the european union has had to deal with it on several occasions. in view of this paradoxical situation in the third world, i would therefore ask the commission what consequences italy will face from the point of view of community law and what economic sanctions italy may be subject to if the waste crisis in campania is not resolved in the near future. i would also like to know whether the commission can provide details of the european funds which have so far been managed by the campania region for the creation of the integrated waste collection and disposal system. you see, commissioner, when we talk about emergencies we usually talk about dramatic, extreme situations which nevertheless find a solution within a reasonable time. when a so-called "emergency" has lasted for more than 15 years, something is clearly wrong. the italian government has tried in recent years to do everything possible to solve the age-old problem of the waste collection and disposal cycle, but obviously if today the streets of naples are flooded with tons and tons of garbage, the blame is mainly to be laid on the local authorities and their total inability or lack of will to make efforts to find a solution. it is clear, beyond all doubt, that the conditions in which naples and campania are found are due to the latitude that has characterized the municipality, the province and the region for so many years in the management of the waste cycle. if separate collection, the first essential element of a successful waste management plan, is not properly carried out, it cannot be the fault of the central government. if the italian government had to send the army - it happened a few weeks ago and also other times before - to replace hundreds of neturbini suddenly and simultaneously sick, obviously it can't be the fault of the central government. if the emergency has hit naples while the rest of italy is in a very different situation, for example in my region, veneto, where separate collection has been carried out for years without problems and with a very high recycling rate, it means that the responsibilities for the emergency fall on the politics of the city and on local administrators and, above all, on the heavy connivances with the criminal gangs that have always sought and obtained huge profits from the waste business thanks to the infiltration of the camorra into local politics and administrations.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank all members of parliament who drew my attention and the attention of my services to this important question. i am pleased that the european parliament has taken an active role in monitoring the waste management situation in campania, as shown, for example, by the report adopted by the committee on petitions following the visit to campania which it carried out in april last year. parliament has truly an important role here and has assumed it fully. immediately after the european court ruling, on 4 march 2010, the commission wrote to the italian authorities asking what measures they had planned or taken in order to comply with it. after that, the commission has had several contacts and meetings with the italian authorities, most recently during the mission to naples carried out on 22 and 23 november 2010 by a delegation from the environment directorate-general. our view is that the italian authorities still have a long way to go in order to execute the ruling. in particular they need, firstly, to expand and upgrade waste management facilities throughout the whole of campania and, secondly, to develop an effective management plan for urban waste in campania, taking into account, amongst other things, the eu waste management hierarchy. the commission is not satisfied with the measures that the italian authorities have communicated since the court’s ruling because they do not include a detailed calendar indicating milestones for the construction works of the foreseen installations. we think that the waste management plan for campania must be fully compliant with eu environmental law and must give priority to waste reduction, re-use and recycling; ensure implementation of separate collection in the whole region; provide campania with the necessary composting capacity; and establish measures for the safe disposal in a reasonable timeframe of more than seven million tonnes of baled waste stored in several cities in campania, which also means that the italian authorities will have to carry out an analysis of the baled waste, the so-called ‘ecoballe’, before deciding which is the safest way to dispose of them. if there is no adequate and effective waste management plan, the commission will return to the court and propose the imposition of fines. therefore we must closely assess the draft waste management plan that the campania authorities have just submitted to the commission – and ‘just’ really means ‘just’ – and monitor carefully that they actually adopt and implement the plan. the decision on whether and when to open article 260 proceedings against italy will depend mainly on the content of the waste management plan and the timing of the measures used to immediately address the problem in a convincing way. with regard to the existing landfills, the commission has started an investigation and asked the italian authorities to report on the functioning of the terziano and cicciano landfills. the italian reply is still pending and once it is received, the commission will assess it. at this stage, the commission does not have evidence of a breach of european union environmental law. the fact that the landfill is situated in a nature protected area is not in itself a breach of eu legislation, provided of course that other rules are applied and that the competent national authorities carry out an appropriate environment assessment and implement the necessary mitigation and also compensation measures. as concerns the co-financing of waste management measures in campania, in the 1994-1999 programming period eur 88.1 million were devoted to waste management projects, almost 49% co-financed by the erdf. however, only 90% of the total allocation was used because of difficulties also linked to the waste management crisis and the institution by the italian authorities of the extraordinary management in 1994. in the 2002-2006 programming period, a total financing allocation of eur 140 million, 50% co-financed again by the erdf, was concentrated on waste management projects. however, following the waste management crisis, the commission decided to take specific measures in order to ensure that erdf funds allocated to campania were used properly. firstly, as from 1 january 2005, expenditure management was considered ineligible for co-financing. secondly, after the official notification to italy of the opening of the infringement procedure for waste management on 29 june 2007, the commission informed the italian authorities that no further co-financing would be acceptable for waste management. the 2007-2013 regional operational programme in campania foresees a total investment of eur 270 million, again 50% co-financed by the erdf, for the management of waste. however, the disbursement of ec financing for projects in the waste sector is subject, in particular, to the condition that the italian authorities adopt a regional waste management plan, to be validated of course by the commission. tomorrow we will publish in the commission the report on the implementation of a thematic strategy on prevention and recycling of waste. this report shows significant differences between member states in terms of waste management performance. it clearly demonstrates that with an appropriate waste management strategy, landfilling can be reduced close to zero and that incineration could be dramatically reduced by increasing waste composting and recycling. in addition to transforming waste into resources, this creates jobs and economic activity while reducing the environmental impact of waste management. so i really hope that this crisis will eventually be transformed into an opportunity by the competent authorities through the launch of serious separate collection and recycling schemes in campania. in brief, the commission is hoping that the waste management plan for campania is convincing. until we are certain of an effective plan setting up a system with the necessary infrastructure and have robust guarantees that projects will be implemented effectively, commission funding of relevant waste management projects in campania is interrupted. i will address some of your questions which you have already raised in my closing remarks.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for pointing out that the committee on petitions has given this parliament an active role, which shows that the speakers in this house and the political party they represent have a full interest in taking responsibility for this situation, in making all procedures transparent and in involving citizens in a dialogue that holds everyone accountable. as has already been said, the regional executive, which, i recall, took office only in may of this year, has developed in recent months a close dialogue with the european commission, beginning a process which we can certainly define as different from previous years. but nothing miraculous, just the taking charge of a dramatic situation that has been consolidated over the course of fifteen years of inconclusive action or inaction. italy was condemned i remember by the court of justice in march 2010, but for facts ascertained and frozen to 2007. the situation has changed since then, the regional councillor has already come here to brussels three times and has already carried out much of the 'chronogram' which was set out during a hearing in july before the committee on petitions. i 'll make a quick list . the commission has approved the plan for special waste, known as the urban solid waste plan. on 31 december, the commission submitted the ninth plan with the corrections requested by the commission, which will be approved by 30 april at the latest, as already announced. the plan has already been partially implemented: the commission has also taken the initiative of setting up a new system of monitoring the use of waste water, which is to be implemented by the member states. the agreement with the five provinces for the disposal of accumulated waste was concluded and agreements were also concluded with five regions for the temporary transfer of waste pending the final entry into force of the plan. the extraordinary management was closed and partial resources were found within the regional budget. as mrs buccella said during her recent hearing in the committee on the environment, the time taken to comply with the judgment normally varies between 12 and 24 months and so we are perfectly within the deadline, but the commission can make a discretionary assessment of an extension of the time realistically compatible with the state of progress of the work. i believe that by this time all the answers that the questioners have asked for have been given, and there are no prerequisites, as the commissioner said, for the imposition of new financial sanctions. the commission is rightly careful and i hope that this debate will not be an instrumental debate which pits the institutions and political parties against each other. if this is a serious debate to help the campania region, to try to find a solution to an old problem, then surely the resolution that is being proposed for february can also be a joint resolution, otherwise it will be yet another waste of time that will create further damage.
the deep crisis which has been affecting the management of the waste cycle in campania for years is a cause for concern, especially as it has a serious impact on the quality of life of the local population. as a european institution, we have a duty to prevent this situation from going on too long, by keeping the local authorities alert and alert, and by urging them without hesitation to take credible measures to enable campania to overcome this grave emergency. the truth is that there has been a lot of talk about the waste emergency, without knowing how things are. the region of campania had committed to submit a regional plan by 2010, which was now postponed to march 2011. the situation will become unmanageable in the face of further delays: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. by decree-law no 195/2009, the italian government declared the emergency closed, delegating the management of the waste cycle to the provinces. it is a decision which we do not share, and which is difficult to implement in a province like naples, where 52% of the population of campania resides. the municipalities must be put back at the centre, they alone are capable of giving targeted and effective responses. several campania mayors have started the separate collection with considerable effort and appreciable results. they should be allocated those resources already transferred to the region. listening to local authorities is essential: they are on the front lines and have a real, holistic view of their territory. they're the ones who are sounding the "filled dump" alarm. in the coming months, new landfills and incinerators will be needed, and their sites will have to be identified, also following the exclusion of cava vitiello in terzigno at the request of the local authorities and our parliament, in order to avoid the risk of paralysing the entire system for collecting urban waste. we await the commission's response to the plan presented by the campania region.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the propaganda of the italian government, which was soon refuted by the commission, the waste emergency in campania is a structural problem far from being solved. beyond questionable lists, one fact must be realized: the citizens of campania continue to live and die in the midst of the waste. the local, regional and national political class, on the right and on the left, have a very heavy responsibility. the solution to the problem cannot now be left to the citizens, who are already victims of absolutely unhealthy living conditions. the european union must insist that the solution be a virtuous one, otherwise its intervention would be in vain. the question is not solved by building incinerators, which are financed as renewable sources in contravention of the european legislation in force. the waste would be turned into ash, harmful and deadly emissions. incinerators, says the waste directive, are the last option in the hierarchy of an integrated waste cycle which presents virtuous alternatives without impact on the health of citizens and the environment and which, on the contrary, create employment. as regards mafia infiltration, i think it is appropriate to note that mafia infiltration, especially in the waste sector, is in the south but especially in the north, especially in recent years. i therefore put three questions to the commission: how will you prevent the solution of the problem from falling on the health of the citizens and what will you do to prevent decisions being imposed on the citizens and even the militarization of the territories? does it consider it appropriate to make the immediate activation of the cancer register for the whole region one of the conditions for the closure of the infringement procedure? how does the commission assess law 210 of 2008 and in particular article 9 on incentives for the construction of incinerators, which clearly violates the community state aid rules?
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the waste disposal plan must be implemented by providing for separate collection, recycling and, only for the final part, incineration. it would not be right to think of imposing new sanctions, and i remind you that the fault is not with the north or any other political force, the green group to which you belong even had a minister before, so be careful. the waste emergency in naples and the campania region has been discussed for decades and, despite the fact that generous funds have been allocated, it is true that today there is still an emergency situation, but there are no excuses. to say that the responsibility lies with the north of italy, or even that there would now be - said my colleague - the north's waste on the streets of naples is simply false. the responsibility is clearly on the shoulders of the previous local authorities, which, while on the one hand they allowed organized crime to freely carry out illegal waste trafficking, on the other hand failed to provide suitable and adequate collection and disposal areas. what is needed is for the citizens of campania and naples to have the courage, by their vote, as has already happened at regional level, to replace the incapable administrators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr seeber and all my colleagues for the task they have given me, but let me stress that very positive measures are already being taken in campania. i therefore believe that the use of article 260 of the treaty by some to obtain financial penalties is instrumental. the regional board, which has only been in office for a few months, has already drawn up a plan for special waste and a plan for integrated waste recycling. in addition, a separate collection policy has been initiated and initiatives have been taken to reduce the overall waste generated. the tender for the construction of an incinerator is under way in salerno and the procedures for the publication of the call for tenders for the incinerator in naples east are well under way. finally, the policies implemented are not only aimed at cleaning up the city, but also at organising an integrated waste cycle with separate collection, reducing the amount of waste produced, setting up modern facilities, including those for the elimination of eco-balloons, and cleaning up old landfills. the real culprits for what has happened in the past must be punished, and they are certainly among the former left-wing campanian administrators and, in particular, the greens, but also some who from northern italy have exploited the local criminal gang to dump the toxic waste they have produced. the european community must help campania without prejudice, and i call on everyone to work for, not against, just to satisfy their party or ideology in the media. do you really think that penalizing campania will solve the emergency?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the lies of the berlusconi government, which came to power in 2008 and told italians that the waste problem was over, the european union is right to block funds to italy until an environmentally friendly waste cycle is presented, based on recycling and composting. it is certainly not the plan presented by president caldoro, which is based once again on uncontrolled landfills such as those at chiaiano, taverna del re, terzigno, even in the vesuvius national park, nor on incinerators which cause death, cancer and a real health emergency. public money in campania during the environmental emergency of the last 13 years has consolidated the criminal relations between politics, both left and right, businessmen and the camorra. and environmental issues are not solved by criminalizing dissent, by criminalizing local communities, families and the territory, as the italian government has done by using the baton to repress those who defend nature and the territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe, a centralised and bureaucratic europe, does not distinguish between the territorial differences and the administrative links within the member states. the responsibility for the disastrous situation in campania lies mainly with the citizens of campania and i, as an apuan, reject these accusations and the rebalancing against those who in campania voted for local administrators incapable of solving the problem and persisted in the error by confirming them in subsequent elections. padania is willing to help the bellmen, but it won't accept the charges.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i do not wish to deny the gravity of a situation which is the inevitable consequence of a blatant administrative and political failure which has threatened, and still threatens, to drown an entire city and its surroundings in waste. mr søndergaard and mr lichtenberger, the emergency in campania was born and has developed so dramatically because of the inability of a regional council and a municipal administration of naples of the left, and with green advisers, to make choices, even unpopular and courageous, to achieve the virtuous cycle of collection and disposal of garbage. irresponsibility, indecision, political expediency, shadowy collusion and waste have characterized a political and administrative phase which has now come to a definitive end. i want to assure the signatories of the questions and the political groups who supported them that the political and operational situation has completely changed. the national government and the new regional council have the political determination to resolve the emergency in a responsible manner, overcoming the obstacles and resistance that often arise from nimby's syndrome by confronting the populations concerned and with the necessary resolve: "i don't want your garbage in my yard". to this end, they have drawn up an integrated waste collection and disposal plan which provides for the encouragement of separate collection and the construction of the necessary installations in the short term. it would therefore be extremely unfair, counterproductive and instrumental, as mr de magistris is calling for, to impose sanctions and restrictive measures today which would affect institutions which, through the efficient use of community and national resources, are trying, in full collaboration with the european union, to close this bad page of the thousand-year history of naples and campania once and for all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i want to make it clear that the waste situation in campania has improved compared to the past and is being defined. the problem is very complex, presents various difficulties and requires time to be solved adequately and definitively. the oral questions we are discussing call for the application of the procedure under article 260 of the treaty, but it is not the application of a financial penalty that will resolve the situation in campania. in so doing, we risk endorsing a criterion of attribution of liability for infringement to a member state on a purely objective basis, simply because it has not yet objectively fulfilled an obligation arising from community law. what must also be taken into account is the subjective behaviour of the state. it cannot be said that italy has not respected its duty of loyal cooperation, but as the commissioner has confirmed, the commission services are in constant contact with the italian national and regional authorities and are closely following developments. the will and commitment of italy are undeniable. it is important to emphasise that the operational role has been transferred from the regions to the provinces, so that a plan adapted to the different needs of the territory can be developed. europe must be close to italy, cooperating in perfect synergy. i would like to conclude by recalling that italy of values was also present at the regional conference in campania, and that it may now have a short memory, too short to remember what it did or, better still, what it did not do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not speaking out of mere fancy, but to share with you the italian response to the community's violation, recalling that it is in our interest to defend the interests of our citizens and our people. the region of campania and the italian state in general are setting up a network of waste disposal plants in accordance with community law. i would like to point out that the community funds allocated to waste disposal in campania were used in the 2000-2006 rdps under measure 1.7 and in the 2007-2013 rdps under operational objective 1.1. for the 2000-2006 rdp, the campania region reported a financial allocation of eur 140 million available, money committed to the construction of storage, treatment and recovery facilities, recovery facilities, wet and dry fraction and the securing of landfills for the construction or extension of facilities for the recovery of waste material, for actions to support separate collection. as regards the 2007-2013 rdp, eur 110 million was allocated to the construction of waste treatment plants, eur 50 million to the financing of municipal waste collection facilities. the activities of objective 1.1 of the erdf-por 2007-2013 together with measure 1.7 of the 2000-2006 por were therefore severely restricted by the conditionality of expenditure schemes as a result of the infringement procedure on waste management in campania, so that a share of the fas has been set aside to allow the continuation of the activities in force under the community veto on the recognition of the por funds. i would like to conclude by saying that it is important to be able to present to the commission and parliament the objective difficulties in complying with the court of justice's judgment in a short time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the funds which the european community may block are those intended for the rehabilitation of the territories. i wonder how anyone could think of blocking these funds and i ask in particular the italian members of parliament, who are elected by the campania community, not to respond to their ideological fury and not to penalize their fellow citizens. i call on them to be representatives of their community and not self-referential.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the members very much for all their views. there are three or four issues which i would like to address. first is the issue which has been quite passionately addressed by many of you. the situation is critical; there is no quick fix. there have been some positive developments but it is obvious that we still need a systemic answer to the question. it is not easy but it is more than needed. in that respect our partner in finding a solution is, of course, italy, but cooperation with regional authorities in this respect is undoubtedly necessary. so i am very much looking forward to the evaluation of the new draft waste management plan which we sincerely hope is what we all believe it should be. it will be evaluated by my services, by the experts, and i can assure you that it will be done in such a way that there will be the same treatment for italy as for any other member state, because it is of fundamental importance that we keep that trust between member states on the table. so when we talk about dealing with these problems, my approach could actually be put into four words. i want to be helpfully strict and strictly helpful. the idea is certainly not to impose fines. as was mentioned by some of you, the idea is to solve problems, but by imposing fines if there is no other way to solve the problems, because that is my duty. so i am truly doing everything in cooperation with the italian authorities so that we find proper solutions. that is my sincere hope. at the end of the day we are talking about the health of italian citizens and the italian environment. the second thing i want to mention is connected with the waste framework directive. it is a new directive which was recently adopted. in that directive it is pretty clear that each of the countries, as a matter of law, has to introduce a waste hierarchy. that means the best waste is no waste; there is re-use, recycling, energy regeneration and, if there is no other possibility, landfilling. that is the picture which is taken from the report that will be published tomorrow on how efficient the member states in the european union are. it is about the trends in landfilling municipal waste because our best available data are on municipal waste. believe it or not, there are five member states where landfilling is below 5% of municipal waste, but there are also seven member states where landfilling is over 80%, so we have really very different situations in europe when we deal with these programmes, and this is an issue which we certainly want to address. this picture is of the situation between 1995 and 2007 and, if it shows anything, it shows that if countries want they can change. if they organise themselves in a proper way, they can really change. fundamentally, you can today divide europe into two parts: one part which sees waste as a problem and one part which sees waste as a major opportunity for resources and also for the new financial profits because that is the reality. i have heard many stories of the need for the question of who will take the waste to be decided by public procurement, because there are more than the necessary number of users who would like to have it in order to use it. however, for this purpose the waste has to be selected at the very beginning. that is the fundamental and most important need. the last thing which i would like to mention is the honourable member who said that we should be more careful about waste management problems elsewhere in the european union. in the infringement cases by sector in 2009, waste accounts for 19%, water 20%, nature 19%, air 16%, and the rest less. we are looking horizontally at all implementation problems and we are bound to do that. i can assure you that we will do it also in the future. to conclude, we should truly do our best, you as members of parliament and i as commissioner for the environment, to spread across europe the message of waste as an opportunity for the future. we desperately need that message in the context of the limited resources which we are increasingly facing from day to day. resource efficiency is the name of the problem and resource efficiency is at the core of our future competitiveness in europe. if you do not believe me, ask me in 10 years’ time. i can guarantee that this will be the case.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the commission on the violation of freedom of expression and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in lithuania, by renate weber, sophia in 't veld, leonidas donskis, cecilia wikström, alexander alvaro, sonia alfano, gianni vattimo, sarah ludford, ramon tremosa i balcells, on behalf of the alde group (o-0190/2010 - b7-0669/2010), the oral question to the commission on the violation of freedom of expression and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in lithuania, by ulrike lunacek, on behalf of the green group (o-0204/2010 - b7-0803/2010), the oral question to the commission on the violation of freedom of expression and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in lithuania, by cornelis de jong, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0207/2010 - b7-0804/2010), the oral question to the commission on the violation of freedom of expression and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in lithuania, by michael cashman, monika flašíková beňová, claude moraes, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0216/2010 - b7-0005/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i have noted very broad agreement in this house by all the major political parties on the principle of non-discrimination. i believe that if there were a resolution that really underlined this principle and its application in national law – an obligation that the national states have signed up to vis-à-vis the rules of europe – then this would be a very important moment. those parliamentarians who have clearly stated that we are speaking here about a law which is not a law but a proposal by some parliamentarians are right to highlight this fact, but i would also like to point out that both the president of lithuania and the government of lithuania have spoken out clearly against those proposals made by some parliamentarians. i hope that a nearly unanimous decision in tomorrow’s vote will underline these principles which have been freely agreed upon by 27 member states, which are the principles behind our european directives, and which have been reinforced by the charter of fundamental rights. i can only subscribe to the strong position of this parliament.
i have received two motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 115 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 january 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the united states a law has required the federal reserve to disclose in detail how much and to which banks the $3.3 trillion in bailout funds went. i wonder if it is subversive to ask you to adopt the same criteria of transparency, unless the super lobby of financial and banking power prevents it. let 's think about it . what future for this forced union of free countries, based on the debt of the weaker countries being held by the stronger countries? technically, do we want to acknowledge a reality, that the euro is a currency in a near-failure situation? how can we think of making it compulsory for countries with weak economies? is a centralised monetary policy acceptable for countries with such a wide range of interest rates? trichet himself, who warns of the risk of the ecb's insolvency, admits, however, that one of the reasons for the capital increase is to deal with credit risk, i.e. the insolvency of the securities acquired. it is also time for new stress tests on the major banks, to give more weight to the figure of bank debt at risk, as the minister of economy has asked. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the european council, i see two major problems with the proposed amendment to article 136, one institutional and one political. the institutional one: article 3 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) defines the monetary policy of countries whose currency is the euro as an exclusive competence of the union, but article 2 provides that an exclusive competence may be exercised by the member states if authorised by the union. it is difficult to understand why the application of a rule clearly defined by the treaty requires a reform of the treaty. there is a political problem, though: the choice of the treaty reform procedure, instead of using article 2 or articles 352 plus 136, puts the esm, and thus the future of the euro, in the hands of 27 ratification processes. is there any awareness that if just one of these 27 ratification processes goes wrong, it would be difficult at this point to come up with a plan b for the euro? is the european council aware that the choice of this procedure places the future of the euro at great risk?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president orban, welcome to strasbourg, where - as mr cohn-bendit said - everyone loves hungary, but as you will have noticed, not everyone loves the hungarian government. we, on the other hand, love hungary, we respect the hungarian government and, i would add, we shamelessly support its party. why are we supporting the fidesz party? because this party was one of the determining factors in hungary's return to democratic life after a long and terrible dictatorship. we support fides because over these years, over these years, it has pursued the same values of democracy and freedom, both when it was in government and when it was in opposition, and we support fides because today it is the real alternative to the populist drift that seems to be sweeping so many countries of the european union. we are also supporting fides because, through the priorities you have indicated, fides is making us understand that the battle for a united and free europe is not yet over. we are betting on you, president orban, and we are cheering for you, because cheering for orban is cheering for hungary and cheering for all of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there have been too many uncertainties or questions about the accessibility of care and reimbursement in crossborder healthcare. the directive we have approved today will finally enable all patients to benefit from a number of health rights and benefits throughout europe. it is not a question of encouraging crossborder care as such, but of making it possible, safe and of high quality where it is useful or necessary. we need better information and clarity on the content of the provisions applicable to care provided in a member state other than the member state of affiliation. the current situation is not satisfactory: this directive will be a valuable opportunity for all european patients, an opportunity based on need rather than economic ability, on informed choice rather than obligation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted today in favour of the oral question on intercountry adoption in the european union. international adoption is the most appropriate procedure to provide an opportunity to give a permanent family to those children for whom a suitable family cannot be found in their state of origin. cooperation between the competent authorities in the member states in the field of intercountry adoption is important to ensure that the adoption is in the best interests of the child, with respect for the child's fundamental rights and to prevent the sale and trafficking of children. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the adoption of the new directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. the case of romania, the only country in the european union to have legally prevented intercountry adoptions, is also a cause for concern. there are currently about 70 000 orphans in the country, of which 40 000 are in orphanages and 30 000 are in the care of nurses. the european commission should shed light on the case of romania, so that these abandoned children can be placed in families through international adoption.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts are with the thousands of couples around the world who face the daily difficulties of obtaining custody of a child. adoption is a value, it is a true expression of love that opens the door to a new family for a child who, unfortunately, can no longer count on the affection of his loved ones. those who carry the wound of abandonment within them have the right to grow up in a happy environment, with people who can offer them a new life. it is therefore our duty to help the orphans, so that a peaceful future is no longer a utopia. today, with the adoption of this joint resolution, a strong and immediate signal must be sent. community policies to overcome situations of family difficulties must be promoted. the bureaucratic slowness and legislative lengthy-ness cannot and must not stop a child's dream and desire to have a family and a happy future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been dealing with the problem of international adoption in europe for many years, and today's resolution is finally an attempt to provide a solution to an increasingly complex and difficult situation. the arrival of new countries, instead of encouraging international adoption, has made it increasingly difficult for many couples to have children to give back to their families after so much suffering and deprivation in their own country. and while on the one hand more and more bureaucracy prevents the adoption of children, on the other hand organ trafficking and child prostitution increase. that is why we are in favour of this motion for a resolution and believe that it is necessary to speed up the practice of international adoption and to ensure that there is, finally, a european adoption to give a future to so many needy children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission's communication on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia represents - and i say this from experience, because my father had alzheimer's and my grandmother had it too - a step forward in the necessary integration of the various health policies in europe to combat these diseases. we therefore intend to renew our commitment to combating the fragmentation of assistance, the divergences between the responses existing in the european area and the prevailing disparity in access and treatment conditions. we want to promote early diagnosis and quality of life, improve epidemiological knowledge of the disease and coordinate ongoing research, fostering solidarity between member states through the sharing of good practice. finally, this report calls for better coordination between member states and a more effective and supportive response to prevent and treat the various forms of dementia, particularly alzheimer's disease, to the benefit of patients and those around them, whether healthcare professionals, service providers or family members. a european strategy in this direction can only work if and when the individual countries give priority to the definition of national action plans.
in writing. − this recommendation to the council was essential to ensure that patients have the highest possible level of legal certainty to exercise their rights in concrete terms, as indicated by the european court of justice. this approach, however, does not interfere with the exclusive competences of the member states in the management of their internal health systems and in the choice of national health policy as provided for in the treaty. the main issues were rare diseases, quality standards and safety standards, reimbursement and prior authorisation procedures and advance payments, and the need to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. the role of contact points as a 'one-stop shop'; the exclusive competence of member states in the field of 'baskets of health services' and ethical choices in the field of health; e-health and cooperation between member states. in addition, the rights of patients as enunciated by the european court of justice have been clarified and the overall legal certainty in cross-border healthcare has been improved, access to cross-border healthcare and its reimbursement, according to safe and quality criteria, has been facilitated, cooperation in healthcare between member states has been promoted.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the directive introducing new rules on crossborder healthcare. with the new legislation, europe is taking a major step forward, not only in terms of facilitating healthcare, especially in border regions, and expanding care opportunities for eu citizens, but also in terms of advancing healthcare in general, thanks to the incentives for research from cooperation between states. in particular, i support the introduction of rules to strengthen cooperation on rare diseases, so that those who suffer from them can benefit from the benefits of closer health cooperation between member states. moreover, the rule that reimbursement is subject to the condition that treatment and costs are covered by the respective health systems and the provision for prior authorisation for treatment involving hospitalization constitute safeguard clauses designed to ensure the stability of national health systems. the directive thus makes it possible to make significant progress towards improving health services by striking the right balance between the needs of the states which are responsible for the provision of these services and those of the citizens who are the main beneficiaries.
in writing. − i welcome the new legislation regulating patients' right to medical care in another eu country. the work of the epp, in close cooperation with the other political groups, was once again crucial: the adoption of the report by mrs grossetête, the french member, comes after lengthy negotiations with the council and makes it possible to take a significant step forward in an area where the existing rules were not sufficient. the new rules, which only apply to those who choose to seek treatment abroad, provide that eu citizens can be reimbursed for medical care they receive in another member state, provided that the treatment and related costs were covered in their home country. this is particularly important when considering that seeking healthcare abroad could particularly benefit patients on long waiting lists or those unable to find specialist care.
in writing. − the right to health care for citizens abroad must necessarily make progress compared to the present situation. i hope that the fear of excessive interference by community legislation with that of the member states will not materialise, but i do think it is good that citizens can acquire the right to medical treatment in a member state and be reimbursed up to the maximum provided for by the national system. for these reasons, i support the recommendation of my colleague.
in writing. − during the previous discussions in committee, it was repeatedly stated that this directive does not seek to encourage 'health tourism', but only to establish clear rules on crossborder healthcare. it is important that access to medical care in a member state other than the member state of origin be subject to a proven and objective need in such a way as to avoid overburdening national health systems with excessive financial burdens which would necessarily undermine their efficiency. a step forward has been made with regard to rare diseases: patients will have easier access to highly specialised care and the possibility of seeking specialist advice in another member state. i think it is important in this respect that national contact points are set up to provide patients with comprehensive information on the treatment available in other countries and on how to access and reimburse cross-border care. finally, i would like to emphasise that the exclusive competence of the states in the field of 'baskets of care' and ethical choices in the field of health should in no way be called into question.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported mrs grossetête's recommendation because it is a proposal for a directive for the benefit of the european citizen. the new rules on medical care provide that citizens may be reimbursed for medical care received in another member state, provided that the treatment and costs would normally have been covered in their own country. this is a result which will benefit patients and will considerably reduce waiting times, which are sometimes excessively long. our society is becoming increasingly mobile, and i believe that it is right to encourage, more than ever, the mobility of citizens in the european union, also in a vital sector such as health care. i also think it is important to stress the new rules on the fight against rare diseases, which aim to strengthen cooperation measures between the various member states in order to fully guarantee european patients their right to treatment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for the adoption of the parliament and council directive on the enforcement of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare because i believe it is essential to ensure that healthcare throughout the union meets high standards of quality and safety for the health of citizens. the directive will require patients to apply for prior authorization to receive health care in another member state, in order to guarantee the quality and safety of care and health services, and will allow them to claim reimbursement of the cost of the treatment in their country of origin. they will also be protected, assisted and reimbursed for all cases of rare diseases whose treatment will be facilitated by cooperation in research between states.
in writing. − the directive will allow all patients to benefit from rights already recognised by the european court of justice, leaving social security schemes under the full competence of the member states (it concerns patients and their mobility within the eu and not the free movement of providers). i am in favour of overcoming the current unsatisfactory health framework, which is caused by the division between national jurisprudence and regimes. i would remind you that the european parliament, at first and second reading, expressed itself in this sense by codifying the case law of the court of justice on crossborder treatment (a european citizen has the right to be treated in another country as if it were his own) and by sharing with the council the will to fight against 'health tourism'. the proposal provides for a safeguard clause and a system of prior authorisation which is flexible from the patient's point of view but which also provides for the reporting of any exceptional costs. it also intends to strengthen patient rights through information and cooperation between member states. the member state of affiliation must ensure that its citizens have access to the information. the second reading proposal goes further, anticipating the possibilities of ehealth.
in writing. the flegt voluntary partnership agreements are the european model, currently being developed, to combat illegality in the international timber trade. the approved partnerships with the republic of cameroon and the republic of congo contain guidelines for good practice which can provide an important precedent for further ongoing negotiations with timber producing countries. the key idea behind the agreed text remains to jointly stop the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products, actively contributing to halting deforestation and forest degradation, the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally. this would, at the same time, promote sustainable economic growth and human development, with full respect for indigenous and local peoples. while states enjoy sovereignty over forests within their territory, the environment is a common heritage of humankind and must be protected, safeguarded and, where possible, restored with the ultimate aim of maintaining global biodiversity and ecosystem functions, protecting the global climate system from ongoing changes.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that cameroon is the largest african exporter of hardwood to europe means that the flow of goods must be regulated by means of the partnership agreement we are voting on today. corruption and illegality in the african country's trade must be tackled by developing a system of legality checks and independent audits of the entire system. although there are still doubts about the effectiveness of this agreement, i think it is right to support mr jadot's recommendation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution in question provides for the important partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon. the main aim of this cooperation is to define a legal framework to ensure the traceability of timber, to establish procedures to certify the quantities of timber exported from cameroon to european countries and to check that these transfers take place in compliance with legal rules and, above all, with respect for the environment. cameroon is the largest african exporter of timber to the european market, which buys 80% of its production from cameroon. this should make us reflect on the need to adopt control systems and procedures in this market sector, in order to prevent its activities from being carried out using illegal procedures. i have decided to support this recommendation because i am convinced of the need to develop agreements with countries outside europe, but i stress that such cooperation must respect the rules for protecting the environment and be subject to strict controls in order to allow such activities to become a real source of development and growth.
in writing. − the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon ('eu-cameroon vpa' concluded on 6 may 2010) aims to establish a legislative framework to establish and ensure the traceability of timber, to establish governmental and independent verification procedures to certify that all quantities of timber exported from cameroon to european markets have been processed legally, and to strengthen the enforcement of forestry regulations and governance. in most cases, the criteria deriving from the definitions of the gpas were met. cameroon is 40% forested and is the largest african exporter of hardwood to europe (80% of sawn timber to the eu). however, it has serious governance problems (corruption), resulting in environmental degradation. it is therefore urgent to establish procedures to combat fraudulent trade in timber in order to better analyse and monitor trade flows. the eu-cameroon voluntary partnership agreement provides for a number of policy and regulatory reforms and will take effect as soon as the promised legislative changes are implemented and the legality verification system is in place. for all these reasons i am in favour of the proposal, allowing parliament to follow the council's position.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as in the case of cameroon, and with the regret that the treaty of lisbon does not give the european parliament the power to amend, but only requires its consent, i support mr jadot's recommendation. the congo exports over 250 million tonnes of timber and wood products a year, half of which ends up on the community market. although, as in the case of cameroon, there are still doubts about the effective application of the agreement we are voting on, i think i support it, as it represents a first step towards combating fraud and illegality in the timber trade.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, much of the wood used by the european union comes from the republic of the congo. in this country, according to studies carried out by ngos working in the area, at least 20% of the timber is of illegal origin. the aim of this recommendation on the draft decision on the application of forestry legislation is to ensure that the european union can take action in the congo, as it has already done in cameroon, to prevent illegal and unacceptable interference in the timber market. this can be done, as proposed in the same recommendation, by adopting measures to enable the eu to ensure that the political reforms initiated through the partnership agreements actually contribute to a clean economy, both legally and environmentally, in order to safeguard the country from crime and misuse of the resources it benefits from.
in writing. − the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of congo ('eu-congo fpa') aims to define a legislative framework to ensure the traceability of timber, establish governmental and independent verification procedures to certify that all quantities of timber exported from the congo to european markets have been legally traded, in order to strengthen the enforcement of forestry regulations and governance. the ngos' investigations have shown that 20% of congolese timber imported into the european market is of illegal origin, at various stages. it is for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that it is urgent to establish procedures to combat the fraudulent trade in timber. the eu-congo voluntary partnership agreement provides for a series of policy and regulatory reforms that will enable the congolese forestry sector to implement good governance and greater transparency. it is necessary to ensure that the political and legislative reforms undertaken contribute to reducing poverty and to improving the living conditions of the population in a tangible way. the agreement will take effect as soon as the promised legislative changes are implemented and the legality verification system is in place. i am therefore in favour of the proposal to follow the council's position.
in writing. - i support this resolution because i believe that we must try to solve the serious problem of deforestation and degradation, while maintaining the integrity of forests as a priority. the commission and the council must commit themselves to increasing efforts to ensure respect for human rights in the republic of congo. another phenomenon that must be prevented is corruption, which must be significantly reduced. in order to ensure that the latter is contained, measures to ensure the independence of the local judicial system and the creation of new legal procedures must be supported. it is also vital to update the legal texts in order to improve social justice and respect for the rights of local and indigenous communities. i would like to conclude by saying that the establishment of a system of verification of the legality of timber must be supported by technical and financial resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these resolutions because i believe it is important to preserve natural forests, the exploitation of which is leading to their degradation and deforestation and the destruction of the environment on a world scale. a reform of the forestry framework is therefore needed to achieve a voluntary partnership agreement, in line with the objectives of the flegt action plan and ensuring that social and environmental criteria are applied. the legal texts need to be updated to improve social justice, in order to respect the rights of local and indigenous communities, thus ensuring the principles of direct participation of the community in the development of the new regulatory texts and in the implementation phase of the transparency agreement. the commission must take an interest in respecting the rights of local communities, who are the first victims of climate and environmental change.
in writing. − the interim partnership agreement between papua new guinea, fiji and the european community was signed on 14 december 2007. these were the only pacific countries to sign the agreement, as they are the most active in trading with the eu, but are mainly interested in protecting their own sugar production and tuna fisheries. the agreement should also provide these countries with additional revenue through new arrangements for duty-free and customs duties. better access to the european market will also open up new investment opportunities for these countries, with positive effects on employment. the economic partnership agreement provides for the establishment of an ad hoc committee to monitor its implementation and to verify at regular intervals its effects on local society and the economy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative approved by this parliament today has created an agreement which will certainly boost trade between the european union and certain pacific states. in particular, the interim partnership agreement was concluded with papua new guinea and the republic of the fiji islands, which are seeking to achieve the objective of protecting their sugar and tuna industries. i believe that this is a step forward in terms of development and prosperity, and that it can bring real added value - also thanks to the rules of origin - to the fishing industry and to the exports of these regions. i would also like to stress that the agreement could have important implications for relations with other states in the pacific region, including australia and new zealand.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the interim partnership agreement between the eu and the pacific states because i believe it is important that europe has trade partnership agreements with third countries that can export products that are difficult for european countries to access. the development of international trade is followed logically by agreements which facilitate trade and make the trade network increasingly accessible. negotiations for new economic partnership agreements (epas) were launched in 2002 with the aim of establishing and strengthening regional integration processes within the acp states. the agreement in question concerns rules of origin in the fisheries, textiles and agriculture sectors, providing opportunities for investment and employment, and market access, with a duty-free tariff that would provide investment and employment opportunities. the interim agreement also reduced the policy room for manoeuvre of governments in terms of regulatory powers.
in writing. − in 2002, negotiations were launched for new acp-eu economic partnership agreements (epas) to replace the previous unilateral trade preferences regime for the acp. given that the issues of specific interest were the subject of individual national negotiations and that it was not possible to conclude partnership agreements immediately, it was agreed to conclude interim agreements focusing on trade in goods by the end of 2007 (they aim to avoid the disruption of trade and may not necessarily be a prelude to a full epa). in the pacific, only fiji and papua new guinea have signed such agreements. the agreement covers rules of origin in the fisheries, textile and agricultural sectors and provides for investment and employment opportunities. the european commission hopes to conclude a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the pacific regional group, so much so that negotiations are under way. i thought it appropriate to stick to the council's position in favour of the interim partnership agreement, because i consider it a priority to secure the supply of resources, especially in view of their scarcity and the deterioration of the environment. it is also essential to keep alive, albeit in a different form, the agreements with the acp countries which have been in force for ten years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on intercountry adoption because i firmly believe that european coordination of adoption strategies and instruments would not only improve the procedure itself but would also ensure greater protection for orphaned and abandoned children and their right to have a family. the synergy between international bodies, community institutions and member states would create a virtuous circle in which the needs of the child would be at the centre, alongside the provision of information, preparation and support services for adoptive families. i believe that greater coordination can give the adopted child greater certainty about the correctness of the procedures for obtaining and mutual recognition of documents, and prevent the phenomenon of child trafficking.
in writing. - adoption is always a sensitive issue and deserves special attention, since it is the children and their future who are being decided. adoption often proves to be a useful tool in rescuing abandoned or orphaned children from an unhappy childhood, spent in orphanages, without the affection and care that every child should enjoy. to deny an innocent child the chance to be loved and guided in his or her journey by loving and present parents would be a cruel and unjust act, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution, as i firmly believe in the power of adoption as a means to give a better life to children who will become the future of the world. at european level, a coordinated strategy is needed, backed up by transparent and effective post-adoption support procedures and a monitoring mechanism to monitor the activities of each member state. adopting a child means giving them a better, safer and more hopeful future, and i believe that practical legislation on this matter is essential to overcome the international differences.
in writing. - with the new migrations, the problem of abandoned children, which was gradually being solved, is becoming more and more serious and important. it is essential to find a regulatory framework which takes account of the protection of minors, parental responsibility and the bureaucratization of practices, which harmonises the laws of the member states in compliance with the 1993 convention on the protection of minors and cooperation in respect of intercountry adoption and the treaty of lisbon. i would like to mention as a negative example the way in which germany handles adoption practices and, in particular, childcare, when couples with one german partner and the other from a different country in the union are involved. it is clear that the ultimate aim of the legislator must be to guarantee children the right to the protection and care necessary for their well-being by avoiding their being forced to live in orphanages.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 february 2010 the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of serbia entered into force. although 11 months have passed, not all eu member states have yet ratified the agreement. with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament wanted, on the one hand, to reaffirm the importance of serbia's role within the union and, on the other hand, to approve the political and social improvements that the serbian government has made in recent years and to recall the steps that the country still has to take in order to meet the demands for democratization, freedom and the adoption of sustainable and clean policies demanded by the european union. i believe that serbia's accession to the eu is a significant step forward for both the union and the republic of serbia, and i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, believing that serbia will soon be able to overcome all the barriers that have for so long created a wide gap between the two.
in writing. − this report reduces trade barriers between the european union and serbia and represents a step forward towards a prospect of accession for the balkan country. this stabilisation and association agreement was signed in 2008, but has since been ratified by only 12 member states, including italy. the important objective achieved today must, however, be a new starting point for serbia, which submitted its candidature in december 2009. it will have to continue to cooperate fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, which has always been an essential precondition for accession.
in writing. - i welcome the stabilisation agreement between the eu and serbia: the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) reduces trade barriers between the eu and serbia and represents a step towards the possible accession of the balkan country to the union. it was signed in 2008, but since then only 12 member states, including italy, have ratified it: today's vote expresses parliament's consent to the agreement, thus sending a signal to the remaining 15 member states to also proceed with ratification. despite being severely tested by events in its recent past, serbia has slowly managed to recover and consolidate its democratic structure. the country, because of its geographical location and its strategic role, is undoubtedly at the heart of the process of integration of the balkans into the eu; serbia is also an important trading partner, with a key role in sectors such as iron and steel. today's vote follows another important step, which took place in december 2009: the abolition of visas throughout the schengen area has allowed serbian citizens to feel more european.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the enlargement process, the situation in the western balkans requires special attention. a country like serbia certainly has its problems, but belgrade's situation seems to be much better than other countries in the same area. i therefore support the text, hoping that it will be interpreted as a stimulus by the serbian people and the serbian authorities, and i hope that the process of cooperation with the tribunal for the crimes of the former yugoslavia will be accelerated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the european integration process of serbia and the stabilisation and association agreement with the eu because i believe that constructive approaches to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are essential elements of the stabilisation and association process, which play a decisive role in the process of transforming the western balkans into an area of long-term stability and sustainable development. serbia also plays an important role in the security, stability and reconciliation of the peoples of the region. the eu condemns all the war crimes that destroyed the former yugoslavia, and supports the work of the icty (the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia) by reiterating that serbia's future lies in the european union and encourages the country to continue its efforts to achieve this goal.
in writing. - in view of the draft council and commission decision, the stabilisation and association agreement between the european community and serbia, the request for approval by the council under articles 217 and 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, articles 81 and 90 of the ep's rules of procedure and the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, i consider it extremely logical and necessary to follow parliament's line. i therefore approve the draft council and commission decision in question, with the aim of encouraging, first of all, ever closer cooperation with serbia and, more generally, stabilization and cooperation within the european community.
in writing. − alzheimer's disease affects more and more people in europe and worldwide, with a trend in recent decades towards a decline in the average age of patients. a disease that was once a health and social problem has now become an urgent issue on the agenda of national health policies. the eu's commitment over the next few years to coordinate policies at community level on research and the exchange of good practice in alzheimer's disease, early diagnosis and support for families of the sick, who are currently in many member states psychologically and economically burdened by the care of people in need of ongoing care and therapy, is therefore positive. i am voting in favour of mrs matias' report, in the hope that much, and more than has been done so far, will be done to combat a disease which is becoming more and more widespread but whose serious social implications are not as well known.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today on the matias report, the european parliament has wanted to underline that the fight against alzheimer's disease is a health priority for the union. according to the 2009 world alzheimer's report, approximately 28% of european citizens suffer from this type of dementia, and this figure is set to increase as the european population ages. i therefore believe that the institutions should not underestimate this disease and should take concrete action to support patients and their families. in this context, the european parliament's task must be to promote a policy of raising public awareness of this issue and to call on the council and the commission to take due account of this disease when preparing future actions in the field of preventive health policy. among these, as suggested in the text of the report, i would like to mention the development of guidelines for the implementation of early diagnosis services and the identification of instruments to facilitate access to funding.
in writing. − the 2009 alzheimer's report is alarming: approximately 35.6 million people worldwide are affected by all forms of dementia. this estimate is constantly increasing, especially in europe where the average age of the population is increasing rapidly. it is therefore important to activate a network for the sharing of statistical data and a platform for the coordination of research activities on the causes, prevention and treatment of alzheimer's disease among the member states. given that early diagnosis can help to reduce healthcare costs across europe, it is also essential to share the level of financial investment and to provide for policies at european level to encourage targeted prevention. i would also like to stress that the specific needs of women, who represent twice as many patients and a disproportionate share of the care staff, must be taken into account in the areas of medical research, health and social policy. alzheimer's disease is a major challenge for european societies, and only through a joint effort can we address the social and health consequences of dementia and provide services and support to people with neurodegenerative diseases as well as their families.
in writing. - i am in favour of mr matias' report because in europe there is a need to ensure close cooperation and coordination between the member states capable of providing an effective response, geared to the prevention and treatment of alzheimer's disease which today affects 6 million european citizens. without european support for national efforts not only in the field of prevention and treatment but also in the coordination of research funding, the dissemination of best practice and appropriate funding for the pharmaceutical industry working to discover effective medicines, we will not be able to give autonomy and dignity to people suffering from diseases that severely disable them, also in terms of emotional and social relationships.
in writing. - my decision to vote in favour of the alzheimer's report is based on the objective of improving the current european strategy to combat this disease. the progressive ageing of the european population is accompanied by a considerable increase in the number of people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, 50% of whom are alzheimer's patients. this report is therefore a step forward in the fight against this serious disease. i believe that prevention is key here, both in early diagnosis and in collecting epidemiological data. it would also be necessary to address some gaps both in the training of professionals in the field and in supporting families by raising public awareness of living with dementia.
in writing. − alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia present very worrying data, such as the fact that 1.4 million eu citizens are affected every year and a new case is diagnosed every 24 seconds. one in 20 people over the age of 65 are affected, and more than 8 million europeans are thought to be affected. in the light of this, coordination between the various national policies is necessary at european level. the fragmentation of interventions, the divergences in responses across europe and the disparity in access and treatment conditions related to the disease are reasons more than enough to justify the initiative on the basis of four main objectives: promoting early diagnosis; improving epidemiological knowledge of the disease; fostering solidarity between member states and respecting the rights of people living with the different forms of dementia. at present, there is no cure for alzheimer's disease, so it is crucial to enhance non-pharmacological treatments by promoting those that contribute to improving the well-being of those affected. in the light of the above, i am absolutely in favour of better coordination between the member states and a more effective response to prevent dementia.
in writing. − the average age of the european population is continuously increasing, and this phenomenon is making the problems of ageing, particularly dementia, more and more relevant. it is estimated that over 35 million people worldwide have dementia and that this number is expected to double every 20 years. in europe, the number of people with dementia is 9.9 million, with a large number of people affected by alzheimer's disease. a study by alzheimer's disease international shows that the annual cost to eu countries for each alzheimer's patient is €24,000, with a total of around €161 billion. dementia is expected to be one of the major challenges to the sustainability of our national health systems in the coming decades. the data on the number of people affected indicate that services and support should be provided to people with dementia, in particular their families, which are the main sources of support for care, such as the alzheimer and related disease plan, already implemented in several member states. the common objective should be to promote greater public awareness of the diseases of ageing and to accompany world alzheimer's day, celebrated on 21 september, with information campaigns on the prevention of these diseases and the treatment of cerebrovascular accidents.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution is based on the need to affirm that europe, and in particular the european parliament as a democratically elected body, is always on the side of its citizens. the resolution adopted today is based on petition 0473/2008 by christoph klein, a german citizen, on the commission's failure to intervene in competition matters in relation to the withdrawal of an asthma device. in such cases, what we have to ensure as european citizens first, and as members of the european parliament later, is the practical possibility of being able to activate protection mechanisms in the event of non-compliance with the rules of the treaties by one of the european institutions. in short, that is the reason for my vote, and i hope that the commission will correct its behaviour or at least provide timely answers to the problem of the withdrawal of the asthma device, which will shed light on what has happened.
in writing. − asthma attacks cause sudden breathing difficulties that may last for hours. in germany, first in 1997 and then in 2005, sales bans were introduced for particular asthma inhalers. the european commission, called upon to answer for the legality of the bans introduced, never made a statement on the subject, in breach of the 'obligation to safeguard' enshrined in directive 93/42/eec which should have obliged it to do so. the seriousness of this behaviour is further underlined by the fact that, according to reliable estimates, withdrawn inhalers could have improved the quality of life of some 30 million people suffering from asthma. the question put by mr mazzoni asks the european commission to respond to the non-compliance with the 'safeguard clause' in article 8 of directive 93/42/eec. this article states that the commission, when it is called upon to assess a national legislative measure in the field of health, must consult the parties concerned as soon as possible and inform them of the legality - or otherwise - of the national measure. at this point in the matter, as the court of justice has also ruled, it is necessary to set up a committee of inquiry to ascertain the real responsibilities of the commission.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake that struck haiti on 12 january 2010 caused some 222 750 deaths and almost 2 million displaced persons. ten months after this tragedy, the same island was struck by a cholera epidemic that has, to date, caused the death of 3,333 people. the situation, as these tragic figures show, is not simple. in addition, despite the fact that the political elections in november were marred by fraud, the country is still without a government. today's vote calls on the european union to work with the institutions of haiti to enable the country to produce rules and regulations that will help it to make better use of all the financial aid it has received over the past year, and above all to do so on the basis of the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the emphasis on the relationship between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development and the promotion of a policy of close cooperation with local government are, in summary, the results that are hoped to be achieved from this resolution.
in writing. - one year after the terrible earthquake in haiti, one of the most devastating natural disasters in human history, the signs of the disaster are still deep. incredibly, a few months after the tragic earthquake, the arrival of a hurricane brought cholera epidemics, further exacerbating the already complicated political crisis. my decision to vote in favour of the resolution is firstly about the need to mobilise interventions and actions to ensure that the country receives full assistance which can bring it back to a situation that is at least viable. the current civil and political tensions only add to the concern, as they create obstacles to the delivery of humanitarian aid from the eu, thus slowing down the pace of reconstruction. i therefore believe that the full availability of the european institutions is a duty and a must, at least to guarantee these deprived populations housing, medical care, food and the provision of basic social services. only with our help can those people slowly return to a normal life.
in writing. - of all the disasters that have struck our planet in 2010, the earthquake in haiti left the most difficult wound to heal. today, one year after the second most devastating earthquake in human history, the signs of the disaster are still painfully evident. more than 1 million people, half of them children, still live in slums and tent cities, and a cholera epidemic last october killed more than 4,000 people. there is still a lack of food, access to clean water, health services and education. of the $500 billion promised by governments and private individuals, very little has come to fruition, only $6 billion, the rest has never materialized! the adoption today of this joint resolution is an important step towards meeting the challenges of the future together. if nature destroys, man has to rebuild. these words should be the stimulus to increase our commitment even more.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the motto of the european parliament is: 'unity in diversity' is the guiding principle which must guide all our activities inside and outside the european union. it is in accordance with this principle that i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because i believe that, while not wishing to interfere in the internal affairs of another state, the european parliament must always be able to express its views, acting as a sounding board for the expression of demands common to all european citizens. the resolution adopted today is a statement of parliament's common position with the lithuanian legislature, which calls for amendments to the draft law amending the code of administrative offences to punish 'public promotion of homosexual relations', with the real risk, as the text clearly states, of criminalising any public expression, representation or information about homosexuality. i therefore believe that it is our duty today, as members of parliament, but even earlier as citizens, to ask the lithuanian parliament to reject the new legislation, in the name of the indispensable principle of the protection of fundamental human rights.
in writing. − in 2010, the lithuanian parliament voted an amendment to the administrative code implementing the law on the protection of minors from harmful effects of public information, adopted in 2009. this amendment would prevent the mass media from promoting sexual relations or other homosexual behaviour, which is not already provided for by the constitution or the civil code, also in view of the influence that the mass media have on the formation and education processes of minors. article 10 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms states that everyone has the right to freedom of expression. the exercise of this freedom, however, carries with it duties and responsibilities and may be subject to sanctions provided for by law, as measures necessary to better protect public morals. too often the mass media, driven by market dynamics, do not seem to be interested in children, as they are particularly susceptible to emotional influence. the common objective must be to develop a greater focus on childhood and adolescence issues and this requires cooperation with all the professionals involved in the information world, in order to develop a solid collective responsibility.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent terrorist attacks in egypt and iraq are criminal acts, but they represent only one aspect, however tragic, of the persecution of christian communities throughout the world and in the middle east in particular. the most worrying element from an institutional point of view is the systematic limitation of the rights of christians as citizens, which does not allow them, for example, to build churches, to enter public, civil and military positions, or to freely practice their own and other religions. the two together, terrorism and discrimination, are forcing hundreds of thousands of citizens to emigrate to these states. in iraq, for example, over 60 percent of christians have been forced into exile, and we're talking about about 600,000 people. the european parliament is fighting for the right of peoples to emigrate. in this case, entire communities are denied the right to live in their own country. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. europe, historically christian and a great defender of human rights, must intervene forcefully on the governments of the region, asking them to respect the rights of their citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you very much for the content of your speech, because the purpose of our resolution is to ensure greater protection for religious minorities in the interests of all. but i want to say something to you with equal frankness, friendliness and sincerity. if you have the patience to read the text you have already read to us, you will see that you have managed to carry out your whole speech without ever mentioning the adjective "christians". this is a fact that struck me, because there is indeed an embarrassment in our institutions, and in this sense we are falling into the game of the fundamentalists who tend to identify the presence of christians in the middle east and other parts of the world exactly with the west and europe. my iraqi christian friends, our palestinian christian friends are arabs, they think in arabic, they love their country, they love that mindset, they love their history and their culture. so i ask you, madam high representative, whether we should not make a radical, very strong examination of conscience about how we have approached this issue so far, because our strength is to call things by their right names. we have to do that, we have to call hatred of jews anti-semitism, hatred of muslims islamophobia and we have to call hatred of christians the way it deserves, because only in this way will we be able to engage all the people who love justice and freedom in those countries. i ask you to do that and i ask you to be concrete. now we're going to rewrite the iraq deal. together with the principles of the trade agreement, let us put in place certain rules, so that in exchange for rights we can have economic advantages. let us do something concrete, let us do it in the interests of all, let us do it quickly, let us do it well, because the world is waiting for a signal from europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, it is important that the condemnation of these attacks and the call for concrete and urgent measures to protect christians in the world be linked to the more general demand for respect for freedom of religion and freedom of conscience and thought. there is no difference between someone who is killed while attending a mass and someone who is sentenced to death for adultery or because he is a member of a muslim, christian or jewish minority, or because he was born in that place and not because he practices a religion. the right to freedom and to live together is universally recognized by humanistic culture and international conventions. on the contrary, we are witnessing a division of the world between those who defend human rights and those who want to extinguish them with brutality. only a vision open to dialogue and against all forms of intolerance can offer the basis for the defence of identities and values, the lack of respect for which also causes forms of exodus of entire communities from their historical places of residence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today we are strongly calling on the council and the commission, and in particular on the high representative for foreign affairs, to adopt clear guidelines for relations with third countries within the framework of the new external service. the bilateral agreements must also pay greater attention to the issues of religious freedom and, more generally, to human rights, the failure to respect which is the reason for the suspension of these agreements. i am thinking, among other things, of the beginning of a european role in interreligious dialogue, the absence of which often goes beyond individual incidents and leads to real wars where religion covers up more complex reasons for conflict. finally, we must look at our own home: europe is not without its intolerance. our cities are experiencing the objective condition of multiculturalism which brings with it traditions and religious values which must be respected and to which freedom of expression must be guaranteed. there is no alternative to dialogue and mutual respect. it is important to reiterate the appeal of the religious communities. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, the fate of eastern christians is changing the map of cultures, with millennial communities - "coptic" means "egyptian" in greek - now seeing in emigration overseas the salvation from the violence they have suffered. but do not make the mistake, by the media or by xenophobic parties, of evoking the clash between religions, the clash between civilizations. years ago -- i'll give you a little story that i think is significant -- in cairo, an elderly farmer who brought home milk three times a week, came to our door crying. we couldn't understand what he wanted, he just said between tears "said akbar", "said akbar", the old great, the old great, and finally we understood that he was expressing to his christian clients his sorrow for the death of karol wojtyla who had disappeared in those days. he was a simple, sincere man, a muslim who fully interpreted the ancient mutual respect of the mediterranean peoples. this small but significant event, a thermometer of the prevailing values of egyptian society, happened in the same country where copts were massacred on christmas. today, however, the christian communities of the east need protection. sometimes a hostage to a settlement of accounts between terrorists and fundamentalists and authoritarian powers. the european union must not be powerless in the face of changing world conditions, and it must not be afraid to speak out.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president/high representative, in the prevailing relativism of european politics there is a taboo word, 'christianophobia', and yet for many years there have been serious and often tragic reports from reliable and unquestionable sources of the persecution of christians on various continents. europe must wake up, it must open its eyes, and take concrete action, send clear messages, for example what we expected from mrs ashton, who could, for example, take up and quote the inspired words of pope benedict who a few days ago, on the day of peace, reminded us that the denial of religious freedom is an offense to god and to human dignity, a threat to security and peace. and then, the facts. what is expected - as i asked immediately - to send a commission to check the condition of our coptic christian brothers in egypt, an officially moderate country where they have practically none of the basic human rights, not even in public office, in public careers. europe, wake up, you cowardly europe, remember your christian roots!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the members who have spoken have said almost everything. they remembered the facts, they evaluated them, they made specific demands. i would therefore like to add something which has not already been said, since this is the last speech scheduled, and i am reminded of the thought of a great european, john paul ii, a man who contributed with great efficiency to the fall of the berlin wall. in his spiritual testament he writes the four values which are the basis of the future civilization, that is, the civilization of love: life, peace, bread and religious freedom. i am thinking of the words of giorgio la pira, former mayor of florence, who organized major conferences on christian civilization in the midst of the cold war. in his book "premiers de la politique" (precepts of politics), he writes that every political concept is based on a certain concept of man. for christian europe, man is essentially a praying being so he writes that is, a being capable of dialogue, of thinking the infinite, of dialogue with god. to deny man this possibility of private and public dialogue is not only the negation of the religious fact, but it is also the negation of man himself. i entrust these thoughts to the house, and to you, high representative, as a contribution to the concrete and effective commitment of our european union, which is rooted in its christian identity and which never fails to proclaim its intention to defend and promote human dignity and rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall simply ask the high representative, mrs ashton, to put a specific question on the agenda for relations with egypt: we call on the egyptian authorities to remove from official documents, from identity cards, from passports, from all documents required for work, the mention of religion. christians are discriminated against in egypt when their documents say "christian". islamic terrorism is now being legitimized in a context where discrimination against christians is institutionalized. this is a specific request that, if realized, would free christians from institutionalized discrimination.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately facing a worldwide attack on christianity. the data speaks for itself: last year, 75% of all religious violence was against christians. the problem becomes political when religious differences are used as a means to block growth and development, and the hatred fomented by these terrorist attacks is aimed at destabilizing the socio-political system of the states where the violence occurs. in all this, the european union, as a promoter of respect for human rights and civil and democratic freedoms, but above all given its christian origins and roots, has the duty to react firmly by condemning all forms of extremism and by promoting dialogue, religious freedom, mutual respect between communities and tolerance. i hope, however, that we will go further, that the european union will include a 'clause' to protect freedom of religion when concluding economic agreements with third countries and that sanctions will be imposed on the states concerned in the event of a breach of this clause.
in writing. we must not be timid or hesitant about the european union's duty to affirm freedom to practice one's religion. in the face of an undeniable increase in violence against christians in various parts of the world, it is urgent and necessary for the european union to take a clear stand against any violation of the right to freedom of religious belief. the issue of freedom of religion must be integrated into european policies, including through the inclusion in agreements with third countries of a binding clause on respect for freedom of religion. these principles are the flag of europe and we cannot derogate from them under any circumstances.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and to the european parliament. we are talking about one of the poorest regions in the world, bordering on some of those countries which have just in recent weeks been experiencing extremely dangerous instability and a region where there is a very worrying interweaving of terrorist infiltration and drug trafficking, which makes the situation untenable and the threat to europe real. the european initiative must therefore make a qualitative leap forward. the 2009 sahel security and development initiative has so far proved ineffective. we need this new strategy for the security of the sahel, which the council, the foreign ministers have asked for and which we are waiting for. i think there are two important elements that have been highlighted: first, a regional approach; secondly, an integrated approach, which will enable us to make the best possible use, in a practical, operational and coordinated way, of the various instruments at the disposal of the european union, while being aware that the path of a possible mission must be carefully considered, because csdp missions are one of the instruments at our disposal, but they cannot replace the political strategy. so our group fully supports europe's new, renewed commitment to the sahel and we look forward to hearing and discussing the new strategy in detail and to supporting its implementation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the request for this debate on this subject has been raised on several occasions and commitments have been made on several occasions to ensure that the necessary initiatives can be taken in the sahel region, both to stabilize the region itself and to ensure greater security. as we know, the sahel, with its lack of borders and its vast territory, is an ideal transit area for drug traffickers and for terrorist activity, in particular al-qaeda in the maghreb. the weakness and fragility of the states in this region is the main problem and the threats fall directly on the peoples and states of the region, as has been said, particularly on mauritania, mali and niger. the main issue facing the european union is to develop a credible security strategy based on the different elements of possible european action: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the implementation of the community's development cooperation policy, regional programmes, strategies for coordinating road safety and safety training policies. the european union should not, but must act as quickly as possible and we therefore expect the commission to draw up a comprehensive strategy, as you have announced, and to take strong action on the ground. in conclusion, my appeal is clear: we must pay more attention to what is happening in southern europe, because so much will change and it is good not to be caught off guard. a more far-sighted view would only do the european union good.
i think that the work done by ana gomes represents a serious contribution to what the commission will have to do in defining the framework agreement. there is no doubt that libya plays a decisive role in the fight against terrorism, peace and security in africa, the fight against illegal immigration in the mediterranean and in the energy sector, which is why our objective in the framework of the european union's strategy must be to consolidate libya's integration into an international political and economic system based on common rules. to achieve this, a number of conditions must be imposed on libya, and this is what the recommendation calls for. first, on the issue of immigration: libya is objectively a transit country. the issue is of great importance, but it cannot be seen simply in terms of security, immigration blocking and expulsions. this issue calls into question the need for a government governed by the flows of economic and social policies that are up to the challenge of migration, the issue of the recognition of political refugees and, for libya, the ratification of the geneva convention, and, finally, also the problem of the readmission of immigrants on the basis of concrete guarantees of security for the living conditions of the immigrants themselves. the question of the launching of economic and democratic reforms which will enable this important country to make a decisive step towards widening the democratic space is something we must take more and more into account, as our neighbour tunisia is teaching us. finally, this recommendation calls for a reflection on the question of bilateral agreements. these agreements can certainly make a valuable contribution to defining and solving problems, but they are not the solution. for example, the problem we have with italian fishing vessels shows that the problem of bilateral agreements still leaves these problems untouched, but now the need to re-locate the debate on libya into a new framework and involve parliament also arises in the context of the review of the partnership and neighbourhood policies. we have asked more than one person to be informed of the council's mandate in relation to the framework agreement. we must, commissioner, really change course and involve the european parliament more and more in the definition of new policies towards the south of europe.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of concluding the framework agreement between the european union and libya because it represents progress compared with the past on important points such as immigration, economic and health cooperation, particularly in the fight against aids, and partly on the energy programme. another important issue is libya's control over terrorist activities, not only within its territory but also on the country's southern borders. progress was made with an agreement between the council and the libyan government also on general principles such as the rome statute and the refugee convention. there is still a long way to go, of course, but it is important that parliament should support the agreement that has already been negotiated without calling it into question again, at the risk of losing the results that have been achieved. i hope that cooperation between the european union and libya will achieve the same results as the friendship treaty between libya and italy, which, among other things, ended the long-standing dispute over the colonial past. we are dealing with governments and countries to deal with concrete issues, we cannot choose our interlocutors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is rather unlikely that the european institutions will continue to want to conclude a framework agreement with a dictatorial country like libya. we cannot continue to say that libya has very important trade relations with the member states of the european union and plays the role of a partner of the european union in the mediterranean basin and put the aspect of respect for human rights as a secondary element. the first condition for establishing a credible dialogue with libya is that it ratifies the geneva convention: we cannot trade economic interests for human lives, not only libyan citizens, but also citizens who flee other countries to escape civil wars and religious persecution and, in transit to libya, instead find death and atrocious torture. we must not forget the thousands of requests for help from libyan prisoners. we cannot forget the horror that ganfuda prison has offered to our eyes. libyan citizens do not enjoy many political and civil rights, such as freedom of expression, assembly and association. the oral amendment by the ppe, which would replace the term 'treaty' in recital b by 'italy-libya agreements on joint coastal patrols', is absolutely untenable, and the italian delegation of italy of values will vote against it. the agreement between italy and libya is much more complex, it is a treaty with precise conditions that cover more complex issues of joint coastal patrols. the european parliament, if it is to remain credible, must call things by their right names, even if this may be embarrassing. a separate speech must be made for the unhcr, which is unable to play its role in libyan territories and is accused by the libyan regime of abuses and incredible crimes. is this the basis on which the agreements are made? we cannot deal with terrorists or dictators; we are the european parliament and not the board of directors of an economic giant.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the maghreb is going through a very delicate phase. the bloody clashes in tunisia in recent days are the clearest proof of this. it would be very serious at this historic moment not to recognise the strong and decisive need to strengthen relations with libya, which is in the heart of the mediterranean and which has a key role to play in containing and regulating migration flows. with all its contradictions - i was in libya with mrs gomes - there is no doubt that a framework agreement could certainly make a contribution to the fight against terrorism, to fundamental freedoms, to the energy issue. not looking at libya, not looking at the maghreb would be a very serious mistake indeed. the italian treaty of friendship is a model which can be used to make this framework agreement a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this directive on procedures is of particular importance. the refugee status, once it has been rigorously established, requires that the recognition procedure be quick and streamlined, and frankly, that is not the case. the council has not yet adopted the asylum package, which should define a new and more modern framework of reference, but a different approach has emerged in the member states on the effectiveness of asylum procedures compared with the rules already in force. i would like to say to the commissioner and to the presidency that the crisis cannot be used to reduce the funding needed for an important procedure, nor can other arguments be used, which i do not find very convincing, for a procedure which is currently stalled. it is right that those who cannot remain in their own country, if there are documented reasons of a political, religious or other nature, should have the right to be received in the member states, just as it is also necessary to deny the right to be received if those who assume that they are refugees are not. it is true that the stockholm programme has made a strong statement of this principle: in the last two years, 250 000 applications have been received, which is a significant number, although it decreased in the last reference year. we need advice, probably interpretation, we need cost reduction and a balanced burden sharing. we need a european union which is really willing to take a decisive step forward, to guarantee the rights of refugees, but at the same time to admit to the member states of the european union only those who are entitled to be called such, that is to say refugees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to make a distorted point, but i am firmly convinced that the correlation, even from a semantic point of view, which i have heard from various groups, namely the savings ratio with the right of asylum ratio, is a negative correlation. i'll explain myself better, even though i only have a few seconds: i strongly believe that even if the costs of administration are reduced, they will be fictitious costs. the real problem is harmonization, but it is not an ideological problem, it is first and foremost a cultural problem. unfortunately, there are cultural approaches, i repeat, not ideological approaches to this problem. that is what we must do. the countries most exposed are those in the mediterranean, which have a much stronger culture of hospitality than other countries, because we have a much closer relationship with this problem. while in italy this expenditure has increased, because we have reached 30 million euros, in other countries they want to reduce it. i can't believe this. how we must be careful to put a fifth of these costs, when we talk about these things, also on the problems of disability, because very often the political refugee is also a person who is disabled, because he has been subjected to torture, how we must also talk about protection, about the protected people, who are something else, but a group to be welcomed. i haven't heard the protection of these people we're supposed to be taking in. i would like to conclude by saying that the europe of freedoms, the europe of the protection of rights (the president interrupts the speaker).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the elaboration of an effective competition policy and its methodological implementation is a very delicate and complex task, especially in a time of crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the work done by the commission in this respect is therefore to be commended, because the rigorousness of the method has certainly been accompanied by the necessary flexibility in relation to this situation, and indeed, providing for an evaluation of the ad hoc instruments adopted at national level to get out of the crisis is a sign of sensitivity, even before high professionalism. european competition law is very broad-minded and highly specialised and certainly puts the european union once again in a position to be a beacon for neighbouring countries, especially the least developed ones, so that there is no divergence and separation between countries which are the motor and countries which are lagging behind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that particular attention should be paid to the assessment of the different situations in the post-crisis scenario, which should begin to be outlined as early as 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i really ask the commission to pay attention both to small and mediumsized enterprises and to a problem of youth employment which makes competition here also a european problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, anti-semitism, anti-islamism, as well as hostility and aversion towards christians, are still present today in varying degrees in many parts of the world. the recent events, some of them bloody, which have affected christians living in pakistan, iraq, egypt, nigeria and cyprus must be strongly condemned. the mutual understanding of the values in which the other believes and the very principle of freedom of religion cannot suffer such severe limitations. the fundamental freedoms must therefore be guaranteed, the christian one as well as the others. at the same time, the european union cannot and must not, in another moment of economic crisis such as the present one, squander significant resources to promote other religions, as has happened with the islamic religion, as the commission has done with an incredible contribution of 4 million euros which could probably have been used for other important purposes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that what we have agreed today is fundamental. religious freedom is the mother of all freedoms, it is part of the fundamental and inalienable rights of man as expressed, among other things, in the universal declaration of human rights. these rights include the freedom to change one's religion or belief, or the freedom to manifest one's religion or belief, either alone or in community, in public or in private, in teaching, practice, worship and observance of rites. however, the massacres perpetrated in recent months which have claimed the lives of christian minorities are the culmination of a systematic and indiscriminate attack on the christian presence in large areas of the world. sadly, as these events document, the right to religious freedom is being called into question today, generating intolerance, often fueled and exploited for political and economic reasons. in this climate, what is most striking is the silence of the institutions and the muted voice of those who try to protest is easily silenced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, religious freedom is the founding value of civilization. without it, democracy remains mutilated and society is encased in a creed that denies man and his dignity. this is what is happening in various parts of the world, where a fundamentalist and fundamentalist conception unleashes murderous violence against believers in the christian faith, who are real martyrs. the intolerance that causes violence is generated by a fundamentalist culture. that is why it is necessary to condemn, always and immediately, any manifestation that denies the religious or cultural identity of the other. the duty of the international community and its institutions to ensure respect for the faith is one of their own, and they have not always acted promptly when christians are being slaughtered. the chaldeans in iraq, like the copts in egypt, are in danger of disappearing from regions where they have been present for centuries. i would like to thank president buzek once again for his firm support for the proposal for a torchlight, a light for christians, in memory of all the victims of the faithful martyred by fundamentalism. religious freedom becomes a banner of the human community, that's my wish for all: faith, hope and charity, but also justice and freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too voted in favour of this resolution because the issue of the protection of religious minorities in the world is more on the agenda today than ever before. it is extremely worrying that in 2011 a person is still being persecuted for his faith. article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union does not allow for any interpretation of that kind. it clearly states the full freedom of thought, conscience and expression of one's religious beliefs. the attacks on some religious communities in recent weeks are a further sign of the urgent need for all governments to take effective measures to protect all religious minorities, despite the difficulties and threats. the european union's objective must be to promote interreligious dialogue in order to increase cooperation between european countries, but above all those where, unfortunately, the defence of freedom of religion is not yet guaranteed. the right to religious freedom must be respected and guaranteed everywhere, without exception.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have appreciated the flexibility of the commission in defining the temporary state aid rules, which were introduced in response to the economic and financial crisis, and i agree with the need to make a detailed assessment of the decisions taken to ensure a level playing field throughout the union. i share the commission's call to ensure that banks reimburse exorbitantly received state aid, ensuring fair competition within the internal market. i was among those who criticized the colossal aid given with taxpayers' money, believing that it would be necessary to use public money to promote development. i hope that this will be the last time that taxpayers' savings are used to pour water into the mill of bank shareholders and unforeseeable managers and that new control measures will prevent the recurrence of speculation harmful to the economy. i welcome the openness to supporting aid for the promotion of projects of common interest, with particular reference to renewable energy.
in writing. − the implementation of a framework agreement to promote cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration and to promote a political dialogue based on human rights is one of the priorities for the union's mediterranean policy. despite the fact that the final text contains some inaccuracies, i think it is appropriate to support it, hoping that it will become a stimulus for the government in tripoli to take greater action in the fight against human trafficking in the region, coupled with the awareness needed to become a responsible partner in other areas such as security and energy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report adopted today contains the proposals which the european parliament considers indispensable in view of the conclusion of the negotiations currently under way between the european union and libya for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement. the conclusion of the framework agreement would allow important issues such as political relations, immigration and security, public health, development, trade, climate change, energy and culture to be addressed, while at the same time representing a decisive step forward in the broader perspective of improving relations between the eu's mediterranean area and africa. as an italian member of parliament, i cannot help stressing the historical and economic reasons which have led my country over the years to have special relations with libya, and i cannot help stressing the importance of strengthening eu-libya cooperation, not only in economic matters but also in the protection of human rights, and i hope that the european union can play a leading role in welcoming migrants and in supporting the fight against human trafficking.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament recommendation to the council on the negotiations on the eu-libya framework agreement. i fully agree with the key points that the rapporteur, ana gomes, makes in the text: the need for libya to adopt a moratorium on the death penalty, ratify the geneva convention on refugees, commit to combating human trafficking, ensure fair treatment for illegal immigrants and apply modern asylum laws. i would add that we have repeatedly asked that the european institutions be allowed to verify the real conditions in the refugee camps in libya before a framework agreement is reached, and this parliament should raise the matter more forcefully now. i and many other members of this house will not be able to support a framework agreement if the requirements set out by the rapporteur in the report which has been approved today in the house are not met.
in writing. - the ongoing negotiations between the eu and libya for the finalisation of a framework agreement to promote political and economic relations between the member states and the maghreb country are of crucial strategic importance for the union's crossborder relations, which is why i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendation to the council. the main objective of the agreement is to improve the political and socio-economic lives of the libyan people through the promotion of fundamental rights as the founding basis of the agreement itself. the agreement will seek to compensate for the shortcomings of the north african country through greater protection of human and democratic rights and through trade cooperation and through strict joint controls on illegal immigration.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it can help the libyan people to improve their living conditions, which are often affected by a lack of respect for human rights and the most basic freedoms. eu-libya cooperation can make a decisive contribution to the capacity building of libya, which is currently facing a very complex situation. often, detainees are forced to undergo torture, corporal punishment such as whipping, beatings, electric shocks, and deliberate denial of medical care. there are no asylum laws in libya and therefore the need to ensure protection for refugees is not addressed at the legal level. as if that were not enough, the death penalty is still used for a large number of crimes, and capital sentences continue to be issued by libyan courts, in violation of international fair trial standards. the european union must conclude the framework agreement as soon as possible, the first real agreement between libya and the eu, so as to provide practical help to the local population, in terms of their fundamental rights as well as political and socio-economic rights.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote on the eu-libya agreement is the result of demanding negotiations, particularly on the issue of immigrants. the human rights situation for refugees and asylum seekers in libya is indeed a dangerous one: there are no legislative safeguards and no protection system. i hope that fundamental human rights and the right to asylum will be protected. libya is not a signatory to the geneva convention of 28 july 1951 and the 1967 protocol relating to the status of refugees and does not intend to accede to them at present; however, in 1981 it ratified the 1969 convention dealing with the specific problem of refugees in africa and is therefore bound to respect the principle of non-refoulement with regard to migrants in need of international protection, who must be identified in accordance with criteria no less restrictive than those laid down by the geneva convention itself. people from countries such as somalia, sudan, eritrea and ethiopia are entitled to humanitarian protection and political asylum under international law, and i hope that the libyan authorities will agree to cooperate with the united nations high commissioner for refugees.
in writing. - finally, our assembly gets to vote on a wide-ranging resolution on the situation of christians in the world. today we know from accredited statistics that the christian community is the community of believers that most suffers in the world the burden and the drama of continuous persecution and social and legal discrimination. europe must do much more than it has done so far in protecting christians in the world. he has the tools to do it, if he wants to: the hope is that this resolution will mark the beginning of a change of approach on the part of the community institutions, especially from the diplomatic and commercial point of view, in their bilateral dialogue with the many, too many countries which tolerate anti-christian persecutions, or even give a strong hand to the culture of christianophobia. when the eu concludes trade, economic and cooperation agreements with third countries, it must, unlike in the past, make the human rights clauses effective and decisive. it is no longer tolerable to see that countries where christians are discriminated against and persecuted are countries which have concluded important agreements with the eu, agreements which provide for respect for human rights as a fundamental basis. i therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. europe must not be afraid of being too cautious in supporting the right of christian communities in the middle east and the world to freely profess their faith and worship. dialogue and mutual respect are essential values for the european union; it is essential that the high representative, catherine ashton, should speak for this position and forcefully reiterate it in bilateral relations with third countries.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has discussed and adopted a resolution condemning the recent attacks on christians. religious freedom is one of the most important fundamental human rights, generally recognized by national constitutions and international conventions. the presence of so many regulations at different levels of governance, from national to international, and from one end of the world to the other, demonstrates a unanimous consensus on the importance of religious freedom. but legal rules are not enough, they are the basis on which to build effective policies. over the last 50 years, the process of globalization has allowed distant civilizations to meet. to make this meeting not a clash, it is not enough to condemn the recent attacks, but we must reaffirm our commitment to creating policies that encourage religious pluralism and ensure that different groups learn to tolerate each other. there is not only the threat of fundamentalism. religious freedom is also under attack today by the widespread secularism that seeks to eliminate the spiritual sphere of the individual from the public sphere. religious freedom is for all religions and even atheists. because when religious freedom is recognized, it also means that its negative meaning is recognized, namely that of being free not to profess any of it.
in writing. the resolution adopted today expresses grave concern at the increase in intolerance, repression and acts of violence against christians. i think it is essential to condemn the recent events in distant countries, where there is a christian presence, rooted in time. the events in egypt, nigeria, pakistan, the philippines, cyprus, iran and iraq are even more serious when you consider how religion is being used to serve a mere power agenda. the european union, through the high representative for the eu's foreign policy, should place among the priorities in the union's international relations the freedom of religion and belief and the security of religious communities, including christians; this priority should be reflected in international human rights agreements and reports. i am convinced that religious freedom must be vigorously defended, even at the cost of imposing heavy sanctions on those countries which show that they do not respect this fundamental principle.
in writing. as the text of the resolution states, the promotion of democracy and respect for human rights must be considered among the most important objectives of the european union. the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of minorities, and to the protection of the rights of minorities. i support this resolution and hope that the european institutions will take a more determined stance against religious intolerance, using all the instruments at their disposal to achieve a situation of security and freedom of worship for millions of christians throughout the world.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my christian roots cannot but condemn every act of violence against christians and other religious communities in the world. similarly, our condemnation extends to any kind of discrimination and intolerance based on religion and belief against those who practice religion. i believe that the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental human right which we hope to protect through this resolution.
in writing. - i voted strongly today to condemn the violence against christian communities and religious minorities. respect for human rights and religious freedom must be a determining factor in relations with other countries. i have seen firsthand the turkish occupation of the republic of northern cyprus, a situation to which europe remains deaf, despite the fact that cyprus is a member state. in occupied cyprus most churches were destroyed, with holy figures disfigured, while on christmas day the celebration of holy mass was prevented by turkish soldiers in two orthodox churches. today our freedom is at stake, the survival of a culture and a system of life based on the absolute value of the human person and on the equality of all before the state, women with the same rights as men, democracy, social justice. religious intolerance is becoming more and more frequent in different parts of the world, and the terrible attacks against christian communities in egypt and iraq in recent weeks represent the latest and most dangerous challenge from fundamentalist terrorism. europe, all of us, must open our eyes and protect religious freedom.
in writing. the events of the last period against the christian communities in egypt, nigeria, iraq and pakistan have necessitated the intervention of the european union, which has expressed its strong condemnation of the acts of persecution by mobilizing its representative abroad. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of christians in the context of religious freedom because i believe that we are unfortunately facing a worldwide attack on christianity, religious violence used for political purposes to block growth and development, to foment social hatred and to destabilise the system of states where such incidents occur. i therefore think it important that europe, as a champion of respect for human rights and civil and democratic freedoms, should speak out forcefully against this violence which is taking the world back centuries and closing the way to any hope of intercultural dialogue, tolerance, growth and social well-being.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the persecution of christians in the world, but while we are talking about the violence in iraq, egypt, the philippines, india and elsewhere, we are still silent about what happened right next to us, with the occupation by the turkish army in 1974 of about one third of the territory of cyprus. this military occupation continues today with 38,000 turkish troops stationed in the turkish republic of northern cyprus and the island is divided in two by walls and railings that even cross towns and villages. over the years, 520 christian churches and monasteries were systematically destroyed and replaced with minarets. the artworks in these churches have been burned, desecrated or ransacked, cemeteries have been cleared and christian bishops are forbidden to celebrate mass. just at christmas turkish police officers prevented the celebration of holy mass in carpasia in the san sinesion rizokarpaso and ss. trinity churches. but the most incredible thing is that there are many colleagues in this parliament who, while speaking for christians around the world, would like to see turkey join the eu.
in writing. the eu must use all the toughness it can in its dealings with belarus, europe's last remaining regime and an anachronistic example of statist political violence totally incompatible with the minimum standards of western democracy and freedom. with this resolution, europe takes a position, as it has done before, of firm condemnation of the events which took place during the recent elections, while at the same time it also renews its condemnation of what has been happening for decades in belarus, including censorship of information, arrests and imprisonment of dissidents, and all the other things that a deplorable dictatorship such as that in minsk does on a daily basis to keep civil society in check. i am voting for the joint resolution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has always considered humanitarian policy and the protection of fundamental human rights to be its priorities. its vocation, which today allows it to play a leading role on the world stage by exporting, even beyond its borders, the principles of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, allows us to understand the reasons behind the joint motion for a resolution calling on belarus to respect all its commitments under international law and humanitarian law. the events of the elections of 19 december are sadly well known, marked by a brutal repression of popular demonstrations against a series of blatant electoral fraud by the police and intelligence services. these unacceptable events have led the european parliament, on the basis of what its president, mr jerzy buzek, had said earlier, to call on the union to impose severe sanctions against belarus and to launch an investigation by an external and impartial authority in order to reconstruct what happened and establish the responsibility of those responsible.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. i personally think that we should adopt a two-pronged approach, which means that while it is necessary to put pressure on the belarusian government, it must not completely stop cooperating with the authorities in minsk, without endorsing their policy. the damage that would result would be for the people of belarus alone: that is why we must continue to support all those measures in favour of civil society and the protection of the opposition, the independent media, the ngos. it is therefore appropriate that the cooperation mechanisms between the european union and belarus, which alone can make a real contribution to the country's welfare and social and democratic growth, should not be interrupted. i therefore believe that the 'critical dialogue' already initiated by the 27 member states of the european union should be maintained in order to convince belarus to take the path towards european standards on respect for democracy and the protection of human rights with greater determination.
in writing. - following the presidential elections in belarus on 19 december, which ended with the re-election of lukashenko, there was a protest demonstration which led to a violent police crackdown. many protesters and opposition leaders have been arrested and could face severe sentences. in this respect, the eu cannot stand by and watch: the need to focus attention on the release of these persons following the post-election events is shared. that is one of the reasons why my vote in favour is intended to be a gesture of assent to a joint resolution so that belarus can be protected and participate in the process of cooperation with the european community. i believe that this issue should be addressed quickly and concretely through a structured approach that actively supports civil society and protects opponents and their families. my vote in favour is based on the need, now strongly felt in the eu, to convince belarus to move towards european standards of respect for democracy and the protection of human rights.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of this report because, based on a positive assessment of the activities carried out this year by the european commission, it strongly supports an increasingly active role for parliament in the definition of competition policy. we ask that we have a 'co-legislative' role and that we be regularly informed of any initiatives in this area. we would stress that an eu competition policy based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all areas is a fundamental element for the proper functioning of the internal market, a prerequisite for the creation of sustainable jobs. we therefore reiterate our call for greater coherence between all the union's policies and the priorities announced in the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. at the same time, we call on all member states to cooperate actively with the commission in the development and evaluation of the temporary rules in response to the financial and economic crisis, by submitting timely and detailed reports on their implementation and effectiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr eppink's report on competition policy 2009 because competition policy is a key instrument for dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis. in the field of competition, in 2009, after the financial sector had recovered, the european commission had and still has the key task of monitoring the reimbursement of regulated state aid to banks in order to boost the economy. the first priority must be to promote small and mediumsized enterprises. as smes are crucial to the whole european economy, as they have a great potential for innovation, they need clear, fair and non-discriminatory competition rules in order to facilitate cross-border transactions and exploit the eu market through the effective use of sepa (single euro payments area).
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is also becoming increasingly clear in the light of the commission's 2009 report on competition policy in europe that this principle is an essential tool for providing the european union with a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market, making it globally competitive and enabling it to overcome the financial crisis. in this context, the role of the european parliament must be increasingly central, starting with its growing involvement in any initiative taken by the commission on this subject, the only competent authority in this field at european union level. the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises in the fabric of the european economy as a whole is emphasised, their great potential for innovation is underlined and the commission is again asked to take new initiatives aimed at fair and non-discriminatory conditions of competition for these enterprises.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the gahler report, 'the challenges facing the arctic are global and should involve all relevant actors'. the problem of the arctic region requires our constant attention today more than ever, because of the worrying problems caused by the effects of climate change. the arctic region, estimated to contain about one fifth of the world's undiscovered hydrocarbon resources, is a very important geopolitical area. and the fact that three eu member states - denmark, finland and sweden - are territories belonging to the arctic region, further explains the union's interest in ensuring that the environmental factor is taken into account much more than is already being done. the union has always been a champion of the environment, making a great deal of effort to protect it and to prevent it, and today, with the vote by this parliament, it has once again wanted to reaffirm its position forcefully.
in writing. − the climate change that has recently affected the arctic region highlights the responsibility that the eu should have in relation to such an important and urgent situation. these effects are on a larger scale here than in other regions, as sea level rise and climate change are merely a consequence of the greenhouse gas emissions the eu produces on a continuous basis. i consider it of fundamental importance that i vote in favour of a sustainable policy for the far north, because this region must be protected and protected, having had to face disastrous consequences for the environment which do not depend directly on its territory but on the most industrialized european countries. the issue must therefore be addressed globally, since its causes are external to the arctic, but in turn affect the entire globe. in addition, the region has a wealth of natural resources, energy and minerals, which the eu has an interest in securing and supplying to the people and industries of europe. the arctic is therefore one of the main contributors to europe's energy, raw materials and fisheries.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported this agreement because climate change and pollution, which originated in the industrialized regions, have unfortunately long since reached the arctic region. this area, often portrayed as pristine, has unfortunately not been so for many years. unlike the antarctic, this region is inhabited and its natural resources have traditionally been exploited to the detriment of the environment. in 1996, in an attempt to stem the tide, the arctic council for the protection of the environment in this region was created, which also includes 3 eu member states - sweden, denmark and finland. the economies of the emerging countries will increasingly need the resources that this area is rich in. energy, minerals, fish, gas, oil, wind and wave energy are all resources of which the arctic is very rich, and which therefore expose it to new speculation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i welcome the work done by mr ungureanu, i do not think it is appropriate to have a new budget line devoted to the black sea. the union's priorities are many and any new investment must be weighed cautiously, even if we are talking about areas of primary importance in energy matters. i therefore think i shall vote against the report.
in writing. - the objective of diversifying transit is set out in paragraph 39 of this report. the strategic importance of the nabucco project is explicitly mentioned. while recognising the importance of this project, i would like to stress the need to give equal status to other southern corridor projects (itgi, tap and white stream) and also to recall the key role of south stream in helping to achieve the objective of diversification. moreover, as regards the oil pipelines, in addition to the constanta-trieste pipeline already mentioned, the key role of the samsun-ceyhan pipeline, already recognised by commissioner oettinger, is essential to reduce traffic in the bosphorus strait and thus also to reduce the risk of environmental accidents in the black sea (odessa conference, 27 july 2010). only by considering all the possible paths, not just some, can the objective of diversifying energy sources be finally achieved and thus guarantee energy independence for europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given its strategic position as a bridge between europe, central asia and the middle east, the black sea region is of great importance to the european union. if we add to these purely geographical considerations the fact that many countries in the region are also member states of the union, we can better understand why europe has been working for several years now to strengthen its relations with the countries of this area. the ungureanu report aims to achieve a strategy by both the commission and the european external action service to define an ever closer cooperation relationship between the eu and the black sea region. however, this relationship will have to be subject to strict controls in order to maintain effective coordination of activities and division of tasks. i believe that the success of such an important partnership is in some way dependent on the achievement of a peaceful settlement of the conflicts that are currently taking place. finally, i would like to emphasize the part of the report which calls on the union to promote strategies to strengthen the institutions of the black sea countries, because i believe that respect for democracy must be at the heart of such relations.
in writing. − the strategic importance of the black sea region has been recognised since 2007; in the context of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu, the black sea has begun to have a direct impact on the union's internal affairs, which is why its greater involvement in the area would be necessary. in my view, the implementation of a strategy aimed at developing greater cooperation between the eu and the region is an objective which the community should set itself as soon as possible. this initiative, called synergy, could become an area of stability, security, democracy and prosperity. in line with the european parliament, i voted in favour of supporting the creation and launch of the black sea synergy. i believe that, while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms in the region, it is possible to promote the economic, social and cultural development of the region by further liberalizing trade and intensifying intra-regional trade. in the interests of development and greater integration between the member states, i am encouraging, by my consent, the growth and development of the black sea through an action plan with clear objectives and initiatives of excellence.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2007, with the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu, parts of the black sea coast became european. in the same year, a new european policy was created, the black sea synergy, which is committed to promoting stability, security, democracy and prosperity in the region. the european parliament already expressed its support for the creation of such synergy in 2008 and, in parallel, called for the development of a concrete action plan for the area with a view to achieving a number of tangible objectives; unfortunately, it is now clear that the project has been partially unsuccessful, partly due to the lack of transparency of the funds made available. a specific budget line should therefore be provided for as soon as possible, with clear rules for the disbursement of funds, so that the needs and specific features of the territory are taken into account. the local authorities, business communities and ngos in the area need to be more involved. the potential for economic and social growth in the black sea region must be developed by starting from areas such as lifelong learning, adapting teaching to the needs of the labour market and planning an interregional trade strategy that is able to increase international trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe cannot remain indifferent to what is happening in pakistan. the murder of the governor of punjab, salmaan taseer, is a grave and heinous act, a situation which has become enormously aggravated in recent months. the division between christians and muslims is becoming increasingly sharp, but the blasphemy law remains at the root of many acts that violate fundamental freedoms. anyone who opposes it or who, like the governor of punjab, merely expresses his opposition to this rule is suppressed. the governor died because he was moderate, because of his moderate positions, because of his courage to express his opposition to this and other laws that violate fundamental freedoms. that is why a lack of clear and strong european action risks leaving those who are courageously fighting in a direction we must support isolated.
mr president, just a few words of criticism on the way some sections of the european public and also some sections of this parliament are treating pakistan and its fight against terrorism. i see too many pakistan-bashing exercises and i see a disregard of the effort that the pakistan government and civil society are making against extremism. it should be very clear to everybody that 90% or more of pakistani people are against terrorism and that they are paying a very high price for this. the death of governor salmaan taseer has been condemned by an overwhelming majority of the people, and also by the most prominent religious scholars. moderate muslims and all government authorities have also suffered a great loss and that should be fully recognised by everybody.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, under international law a political refugee is someone who, fearing persecution on grounds of race, religion, nationality, social standing or political opinion, is outside the country of which he is a national. cesare battisti is not a political persecutor. despite the cover provided by france for years, we are talking about a serial killer, perpetrator or mastermind of four murders, who has hidden behind the pretext of political struggle to escape life imprisonment. it is shameful for a great country like brazil to deny extradition to a criminal who has never repented, recognizing him as a political refugee. the italian authorities, and especially the families of the victims, are demanding that this criminal be brought to justice. in the face of president lula's arrogance in denying extradition, the eu cannot leave the italian government alone. europe has, and must use, all the diplomatic tools at its disposal to ensure that italy gets the handover of battisti, even at the cost of threatening to suspend cooperation agreements with brasilia.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is an appeal to the european institutions to play a role in the exercise of their diplomatic functions in the promotion of the rights of justice and the rule of law. today the european parliament is calling loudly for the charter of rights to be more than a mere set of sheets of paper, for citizens to be more than mere consumers of the common market, but holders of fundamental rights which are inalienable and non-negotiable. in this spirit of trust yesterday were here the relatives of the victims of battisti, the murderer of four honest people, great workers, murdered in a pool of blood without a reason, in front of their families and their children. mr commissioner, it is with the heart and the force of law that we trust that everyone will do his part and i ask my colleagues in these last seconds to dedicate a moment of silence to the memory of the victims.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in this chamber to remind you that the european parliament, the democratic institutions, must protect and be close to the families of the victims of terrorism and give meaning to the sense of justice that european public opinion demands. in the resolution we have tabled and are about to vote, we recall that relations between brazil and the european union are based on mutual recognition, respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights, so there is no question of friendship with brazil. i would remind you that in italy the defendant cesare battisti was convicted of four murders. although a fugitive, he had the guarantee, the legal guarantees in the trials that were all conducted in the presence of his defense lawyer that italian justice had run its course, that all levels of the process had been exhausted and had sentenced cesare battisti to two life sentences. france, mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, where cesare battisti had taken refuge, had also decided in 2004 to accept italy's request for his extradition, recognising his crimes and the related sentences, because cesare battisti is a criminal who must be brought to justice. the contradictory behavior of brazil is difficult to understand, also because the brazilian authorities have not recognized him as a political refugee, which is one of the clauses to suspend the bilateral agreement between italy and brazil on extradition. this is why the supreme court's decision seemed incomprehensible to the families of the victims and to the public. mr president, we represent the europe of rights, the rights of all, and it is a right of victims to know that the perpetrators of such serious crimes are serving their sentences in the prisons of their own countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr romeva i rueda, yesterday, in a moving press conference in our parliament, the families of the victims of cesare battisti's murderous rage presented with dignity and balance the substance of this tragic event. no revenge, but justice must be served. and in order for justice to be done, cesare battisti must be extradited and for battisti to be extradited, we hope that through this resolution the european parliament can act as an authoritative and credible voice for that same cry: no vengeance, but justice must be done. the european union is a political project in which we have shared our values and ideals in order to defeat once and for all the savagery of totalitarian ideologies, the arbitrariness of violence, the abyss of evil of terrorism. for this project to be realized, let us ask again today with force: no vengeance, but justice be done.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. since this is the legal basis for the refusal to extradite battisti, we can only reject it. battisti, a character with an ambiguous past, is the product of a time when thousands of young people, often desperately alone, chose armed struggle as a tool of political struggle and ended up turning the insane alienating utopia in which they believed into a crime. other countries have experienced similar tragedies, but none has so far offered the perpetrators of these tragedies the opportunity to repent as italy has done, which has cemented its sense of national unity precisely in the fight against terrorism. we therefore welcome the appeal of the victims' relatives and ask that battisti be brought before the italian courts, which will be able to prove, as it has already done in hundreds of cases of former terrorists who have now been reintegrated into social and civil life, that the penalty is also an amendment, as the italian beccaria has taught western legal civilization, and not just intimidation or brutality as the brazilian authorities fear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to reply to the honourable member who said that there were many other urgent matters, etc., simply by stating the fact that, unlike many other situations, which are worthy of interest, this is an emergency involving not only a country outside but a country within the european union and we are also talking about citizens who have been killed, who have been made disabled, and who are european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a simple question to mr figueiredo: do you not think that 30 years - because so many years have passed since these people were killed - are not enough to demand justice urgently, finally?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cesare battisti is not a romantic hero as some have portrayed him, but a vicious murderer, convicted of robbery and sentenced for killing four people with a blow to the back of the head. he has unfairly exploited the mitterrand doctrine on political asylum and has been protected and idealized by some french left-wing intellectuals. fleeing to brazil to avoid repatriation and imprisonment, battisti was saved by president lula with a wrong decision, probably for political reasons, and without taking into account the suffering of the victims and their families. the appeal of our parliament to the brazilian authorities, mr president, and to the commission, is not only to demand respect for legal rules and bilateral agreements, but also to affirm the principle that no ideological motivation can justify a murderer, and no state should guarantee him impunity. let us never forget that there is the ethical value of moral redress for victims through the atonement of punishment, and this is the basis of the social contract that underpins any civil community or that wants to be civil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 31 years later the blood shed by the victims of the barbaric murders committed by battisti and his gang has not been forgotten. the grief of the families, which we heard yesterday at the press conference in strasbourg, is the real proof of this. it was precisely my colleague mastella, then minister of justice in the italian government, who made intensive efforts with institutional activities aimed at bringing the battisti case to justice. today, together with the families of the victims, the italian citizens and the whole country, it is the european parliament, showing extraordinary solidarity with a joint motion for a resolution, which is strongly calling on another country - a friend of europe and a friend of italy - to extradite battisti immediately, a criminal, a convicted terrorist with sentences passed in court, to finally bring to an end the painful and painful affair that has dragged on for too long.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'he was a low-level criminal, a small-time criminal but a brilliant intellect, who thought he could become a politician with me. the people most violently affected in the affects and in the body by the crimes of his group have never asked for revenge, but very civilly, even in these hours, truth and justice. not because it is life imprisonment, but because it is established in a sentence, so that the sanction decided according to the rules of our order is respected and executed". arrigo cavallina, who recruited battisti from the prison where he was held for robbery, speaks thus about cesare battisti, his crimes and the families of the victims. that's the real gist of the whole thing: a common criminal, recycled as a terrorist, sentenced to life as the perpetrator or mastermind of four murders of defenseless people, repatriated first to mexico, then to france, now to brazil, protected by an international support network as if he were a romantic revolutionary and not a ruthless killer. it is for these reasons that the extradition of battisti to italy is not yet another act of alleged political persecution, as some intellectuals in the parlour still want us to believe, but the legitimate claim of a member country - and founder - of the european union to see international treaties and its own judicial system respected. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if you, mrs vergiat, respect your colleagues, you should not presume to say that your italian colleagues are never interested in human rights. i've been here for 16 years, you can monitor my parliamentary activity, and i certainly don't deserve a human rights lesson from you. on behalf of my colleagues, we wanted to ask you whether or not you are ashamed to ask a question about four people. do you know what these people were doing? they were very humble people. one was a security guard, one was a butcher, one was a shopkeeper, one was a public safety officer. yesterday, the children of these people, who were between 10 and 15 years old, told us that every holy day of their lives they remember their parent submerged in a pool of blood. do you think it's worth arguing about?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a point of order based on the point of order which refers to the composition of the agenda, just to remind you that this point is on the agenda for a decision by the conference of presidents, then ratified by a vote in plenary last monday. it is not on the agenda at the request of the italian members, it is an official act wanted first by the conference of presidents and then by the whole parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the european union should guarantee compliance with the treaty signed between brazil and italy, which regulates the terms and conditions of cooperation in the matter of extradition. the brazilian supreme court granted the extradition of cesare battisti, who was convicted in seven trials and sentenced in absentia to four life sentences for as many murders, with final sentences issued by the italian judicial authorities. incredibly, the outgoing president of brazil refused to hand over the criminal to italy. not only that, but out of utter contempt for our country, a group of leftist brazilian parliamentarians went to visit battisti in prison and got their picture taken with him celebrating. the european union, which has excellent trade and economic relations with brazil, cannot but intervene and ensure that the law is respected and that the families of the victims are given justice. just yesterday the families of the victims met the members of the european parliament in strasbourg, and for once, regardless of political affiliation, they all agreed.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in calling for the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh, we call on the union and its countries to do more to free the iranian people and the world from the nightmare of one of the most cruel and authoritarian regimes in history. the islamic republic of iran is not only a threat to world peace with a nuclear project capable of evoking the terror of atomic war, but also the illegitimacy of the elections; the mass arrests of those who demand free consultations; the killing of opponents; the rape and violence against those who do not align with the regime; the unfairness of judicial processes, the outcome of which is foreseeable at the time of the accusations; the deep-seated discrimination against women and homosexuals; the absence of freedom of expression and association. the situation of iranian prisoners in camp ashraf is unique, subjected to violence and even stoning. every day in iran at least two people, even minors, are sentenced to death for being unpopular with the regime. judicial evidence is often constructed through the vicious and clever use of cruel torture and certainly these criticisms are not directed at islam, which is based on peace, but against a regime, the iranian regime. the arrest and conviction of mrs nasrin sotoudeh raises a new level of judicial perfidy, because in this case such an attack and such a conviction are being carried out against a human rights defender and therefore not even the iranian citizens are given the opportunity to defend themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are facing yet another debate on the violation of human rights and democracy in iran, this time in the case of a lawyer who is defending human rights activists in iran. the idea was to solve the problem at its root: the european union has a duty to ensure that the people of the region are not only imprisoned for fighting for their rights, but also for defending them, so as to give a little bit of a sense of the pressure it exerts on those who want to oppose the ahmadinejad regime. i am betting from now on, mr president, that in a few weeks we will be in this house again talking about another and further case of violation of every elementary right in iran, disguised as some laughable, if not dramatic, motive for crime such as activity against national security or propaganda against the regime, as in the case we are discussing today. i sincerely wonder, mr president, whether it is appropriate for our parliament to continue to have a delegation for relations with a regime which is the exact opposite of everything on which the european union is founded.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council must face the problem that the european production system has no defence against the volatility of oil prices on the markets, because futures markets are hostage to sophisticated international financial speculation and, as a result, the price has little to do with the fundamentals of supply and demand. the council must aim to give the european union a concrete instrument for the creation of a regulated market, open to selected operators and managed by a european counterpart that is absolutely reliable. the italian government has put forward a proposal for a european oil exchange, with the aim of creating a stable oil market, which would be of enormous benefit to businesses and consumers. the attention of speculators to commodities affects the price of oil, which is no longer based on the spot market, since the sum of advances and speculative maneuvers ultimately determines the supply and demand of the real market. a european stock exchange will be able to transform the present 'non-market' of paper barrels into a real market of real barrels of oil, which will be efficient, regulated and monitored. we shall also discuss this at the european council.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the maghreb an old order is changing and this crisis raises a multitude of problems which are difficult to solve. along with hope, there are risks. it is possible that authoritarian but secular regimes will be replaced by theocratic, aggressive and destabilizing islamic fundamentalism. let's remember what happened in iran: it is difficult to accompany democratic development with a revolution. and we need to learn some lessons from iran. another danger is the likely worsening of the economic crisis in the area, with further worsening of youth unemployment and new powerful migratory flows that europe can no longer accommodate. these events show the inadequacy of the euro-mediterranean policy and show that the cooperation policy, as it has been implemented so far, is not sufficient to create the conditions for development and democracy. what has happened is not only due to the economic crisis, however serious, but also to the lack of social stability, that is to say, the lack of instruments to represent the interests of the people, namely trade unions, a free press, the pluralism of parties, associations, the rule of law and equal opportunities for all. the european union's policy must be to help the countries of the region along this path, together with economic and trade aid. that is how we create that real stability, which is not that of authoritarian regimes but that of social consensus, participation and democratic institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, it is certainly desirable, as i have heard from many, that we can achieve a future of democracy in north africa, a democracy like the one we have in europe. but we also have dangers, and we can't hide them. we all remember the attack on the coptic christians in egypt on christmas day. our fear, mrs ashton, is that we may one day have an islamic dictatorship in north africa. so from this point of view europe must absolutely be the watchdog to prevent the emergence of hostile countries in north africa which - let us remember this - also have numerous trade relations with our territories. certainly, in this time of economic crisis, this destabilization will not please our economy. we must not forget that this destabilisation will also have repercussions on immigration, especially in the southern countries of europe. i therefore ask the european commission and the high representative to keep a close eye on these matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have never been particularly affectionate towards you, mrs ashton, but i must admit that history does everything it can to complicate your life, and i hope that what i am about to say will help you in this respect. the first thing i want to make very clear is that the states are guarantors, they are not masters of the lives of their citizens. when the guarantor governments become masters, the experience of governments ceases and that of regimes begins. this is what happened in tunisia and egypt, because political experiences that began with the profound idealism of gaining independence were regimes for many years. we have a duty to defend freedom and democracy in the hearts of those who are defending it in the streets today. the second point i would like to make is about us, about the european union. we must admit that we have no political strategy for the euro-mediterranean region, and this means that we must judge the failure of the barcelona process and the union for the mediterranean. they are fictions, that is, they are political activities of a playful nature that do not serve and have achieved nothing. we must be firm in this respect: we must begin to have that strategy, we must think about it and we must implement it, as we have done in the interests of eastern europe and as we have done, by all means, also in the interests of the balkans. without that strategy, it will be pointless to speak with one voice, because we will actually be talking for nothing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, i have the impression that you are still not sufficiently aware of what is happening in the mediterranean area. i must say that only the lack of a sense of reality, of being able to catch the winds of change, can explain the delay in the european institutions' approach to the mediterranean question. we are now coming to the end of a political and historical phase in which europe has pursued a confused and counterproductive policy towards the south. the economic crisis, the difficulty of finding a way out for migrants and the lack of change in the ruling classes have created an explosive mix which is affecting tunisia and egypt today but which, as is to be expected, will spread to other countries. i would also like to say to some of my colleagues that we cannot get away with thinking that we should simply and simply support the demonstrations that are taking place. europe must show itself to be more politically mature. that is why we must re-tun the political antennas of this europe. the european union's foreign policy must emerge from a state of semi-clandestinity and become a leading player on the international scene in supporting the processes of democratic transition under way. in particular, clear policies are needed: the european union must be able to take a more active role in the mediterranean, and this is a matter of great importance for the future of the mediterranean. a fundamental change of course is needed and, in this respect, it would take great humility on the part of the commission to open a new debate on foreign policy towards the mediterranean, re-addressing the question of the union for the mediterranean, but at the same time ensuring that europe is present there. this is essential for europe and we must be fully aware of it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what my colleagues from the epp have said before. i would like to stress, however, that the recent events in the mediterranean have caused us all profound surprise, since until a few weeks ago they were totally unexpected. the foreign service, led by baroness ashton, seems to have been taken by surprise and now shows, in my view, a weak capacity for action. i wonder at this point whether it is worth spending so many resources on a service as it is organized today. once again we find ourselves witnessing the complete absence of a european dimension on the euro-mediterranean chessboard. we defend the right of all peoples to self-determination of their government, their ruling class, through free and democratic elections and not through actions imposed by violent and extremist elements. it is time, as has been said, for stability to be combined with democracy. today, therefore, we are using all legal means to strengthen democracy and political pluralism, while respecting the rule of law, human rights and the security of citizens. the whole world, and we europeans first, need a peaceful mediterranean more than ever. the european union must change its policy, it must act without further delay to ensure adequate aid and cooperation for the necessary socioeconomic development of all the mediterranean countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for europe to take action to give concrete support to the tunisian people and their transitional government and to revive a euro-mediterranean dialogue which has been largely neglected in recent years. the explosion of anger among the youth and the poor of the maghreb and egypt is caused by the unequal distribution of wealth and the limitations on the exercise of fundamental freedoms. the north african people are crying out for more democracy, more economy, more participation and more jobs, and they are looking with astonishment at the old continent of europe, which is still unable to grasp the social changes that have taken place in that area and to develop real policies of progress and peace. europe must pay more attention to human rights and democracy, encourage more dialogue, more cooperation and more real economic interventions. europe must open its doors and its heart to north africa if the mediterranean is to become a sea of peace. no more rejection of immigrants through the violent collaboration of countries like libya! we need more investment, more reception and more aid, and more euro-mediterranean policy. history is asking us to do so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must take this crisis as a starting point to see whether the european union really wants to play a role in foreign policy. foreign policy is a serious matter, with strategies, clear objectives and clear alliances. we can't keep going around the world and patting everyone on the back pretending everything's always okay. the elections in egypt were held a few weeks ago and we didn't tear our clothes because we sensed that there was a dictatorship that was making fun of all of us. now that millions of people are taking to the streets, we are all talking about democracy and human rights. welcome, let's make them come, but be careful also to chase the crowds. i remember the iranian people mobilizing to oust the shah and we know what happened, with a regime that even these days hangs dozens of people. i hope that the new egyptian government will, for example, be able to keep extremism at bay and play a balanced role in the israeli-palestinian crisis. baroness, we certainly need more democracy in that part of the world, but we also need more european policy.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, let me begin by being absolutely clear. i do not accept the principle that somehow europe has been slow or late. we were the first to make statements on both tunisia and egypt. we began talking about tunisia on 10 january and i put out statements on egypt last week. we were ahead of everyone else. it is not a contest and it is not a race, but i do not accept that criticism. neither do i accept that we were slow to act. we have been in contact hourly with those in tunisia and with the people in egypt, with our delegations, to whom i pay tribute for what they have had to deal with in the last couple of weeks, and also in direct contact with the government and with the services. you will also be aware of the other issues that we have been dealing with at the same time, so i do not accept that we have been too quiet. i do not accept that we have not done enough. i do accept that there is more that we can do. did you give me all the tools i need with the lisbon treaty? probably not. did you give me all the resources i need? probably not, but we will do the best that we can in the context, within which we have the external action service and the role that i have. i am not somebody who can go out and give my personal views. i speak for the european union. i listen to you and i listen to the member states and i listen to the commission. that is the role that you set up in the lisbon treaty and that is what i will do. for some of you who were not here earlier, the tunisian foreign minister was in my office today, making his very first visit outside tunisia to the european union because i invited him and because he knows how important we are, not just today but next week and next month and next year. when i speak to him i speak on behalf of europe. he knows that what i say will be backed up by 27 countries, hopefully with the european parliament’s support and also with the support of the commission. that means something to these people. it means something that when we speak it is one message, not necessarily – as people keep saying – one voice. it is the same message, whether it is said by the chancellor of germany, by the prime of minister of britain, by the president of another country in the european union, by any of the 27. we are saying the same thing. that is why the foreign ministers coming together on monday, the conclusions that they drew and the press conferences that they gave on all of the issues that we are grappling with, in our neighbourhood and beyond, are so significant to the people on the ground. we must not lose sight of that in anything else that we do. i agree with you that we need to be more active on the ground to do more and i absolutely agree that we need to revisit the neighbourhood policy. i have been saying it for a long time. we need to make sure that we have a more diversified approach, that we take each country and we work out what it is we want to achieve with the people of that country – yes, to do more with civil society, yes, to focus on human rights and democracy and, yes, to deal with the common foreign policy issues that we have with them. i agree. i am trying to do it. if you look at the work we have been doing in the last two or three months, you will see a common theme in what i have been saying, which has been the need to be more active in our neighbourhood. it should be our first priority after the setting up of the service and it needs to be better, smarter and more related to their needs. i cannot take responsibility for what happened before my time, but i do take responsibility for transforming what i inherited into a strategy for the future that you can be as proud of, as i intend to be. it starts with what we do now and how much we are able to take responsibility and move forward. i do not underestimate how difficult the situation is and how fast it is moving. i agree with those who have also pointed out that democracy is not a moment in time. it is a process. you build democracy and you bring out those organisations who can work with people to help them understand their democratic rights, what democracy can mean and what it can do – the transformation of society. we use that word in the council conclusions for a reason, because i believe in transformation, not just for today and tomorrow but for the long term. that is what europe offers. it is what europe offered to our neighbours who became our partners and what it offered to its own members. it brought about transformation that will last for generations. that is what we are in the business of. we are not in the business of knee-jerk reactions and responses. we are in the business of doing something that we give to the people for their lifetime, for their children’s lifetime and beyond. and, of course, in all of this i have not forgotten all the other issues. i am watching what happens in jordan. i am in touch there. i am of course engaged in what is happening in iran. the weekend before last i spent in talks with the iranians and you know how passionately i feel about human rights in iran because of all the statements i have made, because of all the issues that we have raised. i certainly have not forgotten the middle east peace process. i was speaking with george mitchell yesterday. we will see prime minister fayyad tomorrow. we are engaged with the quartet. they meet on saturday at the munich security conference, where i will chair the quartet on that occasion. i have not forgotten any of the other issues. neither have i forgotten albania, where miroslav lajčák goes back on my behalf this week to continue that dialogue. we do not forget everything else that needs to be addressed, nor indeed the issues that we will be debating in this parliament tonight. and i am not responsible for what tony blair says. i may share the same language; i may come from the same political party, but i am not responsible for him and i will not be held responsible for him either. next week i go to the security council, on your behalf too. at the security council we again have the opportunity to show what the european union has to offer for these people, for today and for tomorrow. it is really important that i get your support to do this – not quietly, i can be very loud – but properly with cohesion, with direction, with purpose, with a strategy and a plan so that, when the tunisian foreign minister comes to my office, i give him a plan. i do not say, it is very nice to see you, come and talk to me in front of the tv cameras for five minutes. no. i said to him we are going to sit for an hour and we are going to work through your plan with what i think we can offer you. how much money? what can i do? what do i need to change? which instruments do we need to bring together? how much flexibility have i got now? how much do i need to get? what do you need from us, the european investment bank, the african union bank, the united states, your other partners? how do we build the plan? then i met the yemeni foreign minster and we did the same thing: how do the group of countries that are friends of yemen put together a new development fund? do we do that with the arab countries with whom i have been talking? what do we do? in my view, that is how europe should work, and that is what i do every single day on your behalf and will continue to do. now i am hoping that i can shortly leave this debate and ask another commissioner to take over. for that i apologise but events in egypt, as you rightly say, are moving and i can tell you what we have also been doing while we have been talking in here. we have sent messages, we have spoken to the deputy foreign minister on my behalf. messages have now gone in directly. the security forces have to intervene right away to stop an escalation of violence. that message has come from me while i am also sitting here talking to you. they need to take responsibility; the government is responsible for getting the army in to assist the people and to make sure that citizens are protected now. ambulances have to be allowed in and out of the square, because we are hearing that they are not being allowed in. i am going to speak to vice-president suleiman as soon as i leave the chamber. the call is being set up now and that is why you have to forgive me and let me go. there is an ongoing meeting that is trying to work out a road map with the opposition, now that european leaders are busy on our behalf talking to other leaders in the region and getting them to put in the calls as well. this has to be a telephone tree like you have never seen before of leaders talking to leaders, getting the messages into egypt. while all this is going on, we have a crisis meeting going on in my offices to work out exactly what we will do in whatever eventuality we find ourselves. that is what i have done every single day since this crisis began, with what happened in albania, with what happened in belarus, with what we did on sudan, where our special representative led a task force and where véronique de keyser saw for herself on the ground what europe was doing. that is what we do. could we do more? of course. do i wish there were four of me? yes i do. do i think that the tools are right? no. do i think we have made progress? yes. do i think we can do much more? of course. if all you want me to do is pop up and be seen to be alongside everybody, i will not do that. what i will do for you is deliver what i think europe was created to do, which is to put democracy and human rights at the heart of every single action we take and support the people of egypt and tunisia today. (applause)
in writing. madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in tunisia and other countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean has deteriorated in recent days. dozens of people who were demonstrating violently against the caravanserai and the lack of a free market in the country have lost their lives. i would remind you that the european union launched the mediterranean partnership programme in barcelona in 1995 with the aim of achieving economic, political, military and social cooperation, but these objectives are still far from being achieved. the tragic situation in tunisia shows the urgency of a european vision for the mediterranean, that is, the involvement of the countries bordering the mediterranean in the current partnership and neighbourhood policies. the situation in egypt has worsened in recent hours. clashes between police and anti-mubarak protesters have left several dead and injured. i believe that the way forward in the interests of these countries, but above all in the interests of europe, is to support economic and social reforms which meet the expectations of a large part of the population and which ensure peace and a gradual improvement in the living conditions of the countries of north africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to spoil this atmosphere of great happiness. it is true that a phase, which began in 2005, has come to an end, where diplomacy has allowed everything to go smoothly. but there are still many open knots. this is a young country and it will be a young country when secession is implemented and it is a country that has yet to define its borders, the issue of the multi-party conflicts in the abyei region, the issue of the pipeline, which is the most important thing in that country, and still the international aid system. then i would like to say something very simple to the commissioner. there are two or three things to do. in the meantime, we must set a strategy for south sudan by recognising this new state as early as 7 february - without waiting until 9 july - when the election results are official - and by opening our international service immediately, that is, by opening our delegation in south sudan immediately. only in this way can we accompany a process, only in this way can smart diplomacy with strategy accompany this country towards democracy. i would remind you that the first thing this country has to do is to write its constitution and europe can really make a great contribution to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i started working for the european parliament as a political adviser in 1991, and even then the conflict between north and south sudan was a recurring emergency. after 20 years, it seems we are finally seeing the end of a painful tunnel and a little bit of light. as mr milana and others have said, much remains to be done, but many of us were preparing for the worst and were in fact expecting a resumption of civil war. i therefore congratulate the north and the south of the country on this first result of the referendum. now every day until the declaration of independence is precious. no one can afford to make a mistake, neither in khartoum, nor in juba, nor in brussels, nor at the african union in addis ababa. for example, the idea of opening a delegation of the european union with a special status until the declaration of independence is certainly a welcome suggestion. sudan is about to give a beautiful lesson against the cynicism of the international community and crises that we often consider, more out of resignation than anything else, to be unsolvable.
member of the commission. - madam president, i shall not be very long since i have expressed myself as sincerely and as clearly as possible, weighing every word of my statement, which will be confirmed in writing in a letter which we have co-signed with vice-president šefčovič to make things extremely clear. i would simply like to mention three points in response to each of your speeches and to thank you for them. first, the independence and authority of the heads of the authorities. i am very pleased with the total commitment - which does not surprise me - of parliament, which is also in line with the commission, to ensure that this independence and authority is respected and defended in the long term. this is essential and will be important in the future, given the multitude of tasks and the seriousness of the tasks which these authorities will have to face. we were talking earlier about rating agencies or stress tests. these are the kinds of issues where we're going to need the authorities and their credibility. that is the first point i wanted to mention, on which parliament and, of course, the commission can reach an agreement and i hope - and i think so too - the council can do the same. the second point is the selection procedure. ladies and gentlemen, this procedure - i remember the discussions in the trilogues - was the subject of much debate and finally of agreement by the co-legislators. she is what she is, and she's bound to have flaws. i myself have brought up the appointment clause to improve it. i have no reason - i say this in good conscience before you - to think that it has not allowed good candidates to be nominated. i have no reason to make an intentional lawsuit against the candidates who have been chosen. i myself have taken the conscientious responsibility on the short lists which have been communicated to me, after having personally met each of the candidates, to establish an order according to what i felt, in conscience, to be the most useful and credible. but we have based our choice of good candidates on the lists that have been provided to us and on the applications as they have been expressed, two hundred and seventy-five applications from the member states, from the regulatory authorities. we have a clause for meeting to improve these procedures, which, no doubt, can be improved, but i want to say in good conscience that as far as i am concerned, i have no reason to say or think that we have not appointed good candidates, capable of living up to their responsibilities. finally, there is a third point, which many of you have raised, and that is the level of representation of the authorities. the commission will constantly ensure that this representation is fully in line with the regulation, at the highest level. i am also very grateful to the european parliament for supporting us on this very important matter, which is also a key to credibility. that is what i wanted to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before a night which must be a night of advice, as has been said, what i wanted to give you as an assurance, as a concern which i want to express personally on behalf of all the commissioners, that we make these authorities succeed in the perspective of a real european supervision, which, i also say, does not replace national supervisory authorities but which will make them work better together, which will have its own powers in the face of issues, challenges and risks which are obviously transnational today. we needed, and we have, thanks largely to you today, these three radar screens, these three authorities in addition to the systemic risk board. now, ladies and gentlemen, we must all get to work quickly because, frankly, i observe that the markets are moving very fast - much faster than we are, in our time of democracy - and the authorities must work very fast.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, first let me answer the question which came up very often in this debate: will the council agree to review the appointment procedure in the regulation? well i know that the same recital states, for the subsequent designations of the chairpersons, that the opportunity of having a shortlist drawn up by the commission should be reviewed in a report. i also know that article 81 of the regulation also makes provision for the review by the commission to be sent to the european parliament and the council by 2 january 2014 and every three years thereafter. so this will give us an opportunity to improve the regulation in due time on the basis of practical experience, and in this spirit i look forward to a constructive dialogue between our institutions to pave the way for the future assessment. a tanács soros elnöke. − a biztos úr és az én felszólalásomat az határozta meg, hogy kinek mi a hatásköre. megkaptuk a gazdasági bizottság elnök asszonyának levelét, és mindenki a saját hatáskörébe illő kérdéseket igyekezett megválaszolni. igyekeztem önöket meggyőzni arról, hogy a függetlenségre megvannak a garanciák, és a tanácsnak és a parlamentnek, mint a pénzügyi felelősséggel rendelkező két intézménynek a költségvetés megalkotásában a feladata, hogy gondoskodjon ezen intézményeknek a működőképességéről. világos tehát a munkamegosztás, és egyértelmű az elkötelezettség, úgy látom, minden intézmény részéről. ebben a szellemben készült az a levél, amelyet az ecofin elnöke, matolcsy györgy miniszter úr küldött ma válaszul a ma reggeli econ bizottsági elnök asszonyos levélre, és abban bízom, hogy a bizottság véleményével együtt önök ezt kielégítő válasznak tekintik. a tanács, a soros elnökség azt teljes mértékben támogatja. ez volt gauzès képviselő úrnak a kérdése, amit a bizottság az ő illetékességi körébe tartozó témákban mondott. úgyhogy én abban bízom, hogy ezek után nem lesz akadálya annak, hogy holnap a parlament a jelölteket támogassa, és végre a felügyeleti hatóságok munkához láthassanak.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has made a major contribution to the creation of the new european financial supervisory authorities. that is why it wants to reiterate its role again this evening and asks the council and the commission to ensure that the authorities operate independently and have the appropriate staff and resources. this is regardless of the appointments made. the candidates for the post of president of the esas have in fact demonstrated their competence and professionalism and i am confident that they will be able to fulfil their role impartially and more than adequately. i think it is essential to support the candidates and to ensure that these authorities are put in a position to operate as soon as possible, as the problems to be solved are many and require immediate action. this is the need which led us to create them and which we must remember tomorrow when we vote.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is called upon to give its opinion on two agreements signed with the united states and 11 latin american countries, which are involved in a long and troubled affair. the european union has been called into question in the world trade organisation and, above all, has failed. the subject is very sensitive because the disputes concern the principle of non-discrimination in international trade relations, which europe allegedly violated in the organization of banana imports within the union. this is due to a double track, a double system applied to the acp countries, different from that applied to other countries. a system which allowed these countries to introduce this product onto the european market without paying any duty, unlike the other countries which were required to pay duties of eur 176 per tonne. this agreement thus restores balance to the situation and, above all, preserves the right of the acp countries, which are fragile developing countries, to import their products into the union without paying import duties. at the same time, the other countries that have signed the agreements will be able to export bananas within the union with the payment of duties, which will however be progressively reduced, over a period of time from 2011 to 2017, from the current eur 176 per tonne to a final level of eur 114. but what is more important is that these agreements, in addition to finally making the union compliant with the commitments it has made as a member of the world trade organisation, and thus restoring some institutional credibility as well, have a particular focus on these acp countries in delicate development conditions, because they also provide for new financial support instruments in their favour. these instruments will enable these countries to invest to diversify their production and thus, hopefully, to strengthen their economies. these measures, which have a weight of eur 190 million, are for the time being planned until 2013. i believe that these agreements are positive, not only because they define disputes which undermine the union with economic consequences, sanctions and, as i said earlier, institutional credibility, but also because they allow for a balanced solution which respects those acp countries and european producers - i am thinking of the outermost regions - who certainly cannot be left to unbridled competition. i therefore propose that parliament give its assent to these agreements, but ask the council and the commission to commit themselves first of all to providing as soon as possible an assessment of the impact that the agreements will have between now and 2020, with a broad time horizon, on the acp countries and on the producers in europe - i am thinking of the outermost regions - whose economies are closely linked to this fruit, but also to commit themselves firmly to giving an assessment of the operation of the financial accompanying measures specifically dedicated to the acp countries a year and a half before their expiry, so that action may be taken with another instrument of aid and support in relation to these countries, so that they are not left alone and are supported to combat, counter and mitigate in some way the possible negative consequences of the entry into force of these agreements, with a correlation of the prices and therefore the competitiveness of products coming from other countries within the union. i therefore believe that the agreement, by resolving an age-old question, certainly allows at this moment to see a way out which also respects these weaker countries, which, i repeat, have always been the main concern we have had in mind, also during the long debate in the committee on international trade, and which i hope will find strong support and a good solution in these accompanying measures and above all in the monitoring and commitment that we as a parliament ask the commission and the council to make on the impact of the agreement, on the functioning of the aid measures and possibly on their prolongation or strengthening for the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, bilateral trade agreements are often concluded to the detriment of european producers, who suffer from the liberalization of imports. the agreements to be voted on tomorrow include a reduction in import duties on bananas from latin america. these agreements have helped to resolve a ten-year conflict but they risk putting european banana producers in serious difficulty. it is clear that the tariff reductions negotiated with the latin american countries, together with the acp support programme and the accompanying measures programme in the banana sector, are likely to seriously undermine the competitiveness of european producers. so far, the financial support, the support for our banana producers, has been provided through the posei programme, but the last reform of the posei programme, which dates from 2006, does not take any account of the conclusion of these agreements. i therefore think it is appropriate to invite the council to consider the need to identify appropriate instruments and resources to cover the financial needs of european producers, improving their status and at the same time seeking to compensate for any damage resulting from the conclusion of agreements and the reduction of duties. i do not think it is possible to proceed with the annual search for resources to meet the needs of european banana producers, but i believe that a stable and lasting solution must be found to compensate for the damage caused by enlargement and the opening up of markets.
member of the commission. - madam president, i shall try to answer some of the questions or points that have been raised. firstly, we have talked here about resolving a conflict that can help us in a multilateral agreement. the bilateral agreements negotiated with the countries of central america and some latin american countries are in a different context, since the european union has also had aggressive interests and has also obtained things in return for what it has offered. a further comment was made on multinationals and the fact that they are the ones who benefit in the acp countries or that the financial measures are not sufficient for the acp countries. of course, the european union cannot decide for the governments of the acp countries. she feels that with the envelope provided, much can be done if the money is used well. i think that is also the case for the outermost regions, or at least the banana-producing regions in the european union. mr. mato adrover and mr. teixeira, i can show you the figures. when i say that in 2006, in addition to the budget that was provided for posei, we did calculations - by the way, i have the figures here - we planned a reduction in the tax, bringing it from 176 euros to 137 euros in 2009. we also introduced the possibility that, in the doha negotiations, the outcome of which was not known, these taxes could be reduced to eur 79 per tonne. that is why we have increased the posei budget by 8.4% to the 245 million euro, i.e. an additional 22 million euro per year to anticipate this possible impact. for this reason, the budget calculated for posei in 2006 was, according to the impact study, significantly higher than the actual situation in 2006. i did not say that we would stop there and not consider any other need for compensation. i'm saying i'm ready to do that analysis. and if it is necessary in the context of the posei regulation, which we are now discussing with the council and with you, we will consider another compensation. however, a large part of the necessary compensation has already been covered. i'm proving it here with numbers and with calculations from impact studies. we have had many discussions with the member states concerned and i can tell you that when i say something, i do so on the basis of figures. now what about this money? you talk a lot about small producers. i think that in these regions, including our outermost regions, we may need to protect small producers more. the posei money must still be used, particularly and above all for small producers. this is not always the case and perhaps at some point, when it comes to posei, we will have to think about reform, adaptation so that this money really contributes to a restructuring of the sector. but if the money already allocated to posei, with possible compensation, were really used for restructuring aid, then perhaps, in addition to this compensation, other solutions could also be found in a few years' time for these small producers. i am very open to looking for new solutions, possibly including posei, so that this money can be used even better. i will just reply to mr campbell bannerman, who has a different view on the usefulness of such compensation. i believe that the producers in the outermost regions are also european citizens, taxpayers. i think it is only right that we should support them as long as these measures are justified. as for the banana you showed me, i think that if it did not conform to the rules you mentioned, you would not have been able to buy it. if you were able to buy it, it is because as it is, in size, in curvature, it conforms to european standards. so, i think i've covered the main points. in conclusion, i should like to say that in the discussions on posei i am always willing to see how, with the figures on the table, the existing compensations, or possibly other types of compensation, can respond to these provocations, but i think that in the end it is an agreement which, as the rapporteur has also told us, helps us in many ways and brings us out of a historic conflict.
the president of the council. - madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the house, commissioner! thank you for answering so many of my questions and concerns, officer. let me mention a few of them. i think that a lot of people have expressed concern about what will happen to the acp countries. it is precisely to help them that the proposal for the banana accompanying measures was made, which compensates these countries with some eur 190 million a year for the heavy burden they are suffering from the abolition of the duty-free regime for bananas. the other concern that has been raised is what will happen if we take tariffs down even further, if we liberalize further. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i think that the conclusion of the banana agreement will put an end to a 15-year trade dispute, and that is certainly welcome. this outcome strengthens the union's negotiating position in international trade negotiations, in particular in the ongoing wto doha negotiations. i think that we must continue to address all the concerns and questions you have raised here in relation to solidarity, particularly those concerning the poorest countries, and seek common solutions, but we must give free rein to this banana trade agreement and to the legislation which supersedes the previous agreement, and that is why i am asking the european parliament to decide tomorrow whether to give its consent to the banana trade agreement.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate has been very interesting and has in part brought up concerns and issues which we have already dealt with in committee. i would like to stress one more important fact which i think we sometimes lose sight of. these agreements are the implementation of a specific commitment of the european union as a member of the world trade organization. let's not forget that. these are agreements whereby the union is taking it upon itself to solve a serious problem with important countries, which it has had to deal with precisely because of the violation of the principle of non-discrimination. so these are agreements that give us back credibility and fairness as members of the wto. this agreement, following disputes and tensions, is therefore part of a climate that is certainly detrimental to other areas of relations and, as a final, negotiated agreement, it seeks to re-establish a new balance and does so - as we have said and as we have also written in the resolution - with particular caution in relation to countries in fragile development. the accompanying measures will now certainly be monitored and i would say that this is the most important point. it is important to have the accompanying measures in place, but it will be even more important to have these assessments of the impact of their operation, to have the commitment - and i am pleased to hear it - that we have heard today from both the council and the commission, the commitment to never lose sight of the situation and its development, and above all the readiness to intervene with different measures if necessary. posei itself was included in the resolution as a sensitive point to be monitored because of the delicate relationship between the posei financial appropriations forecast and the new situation of the outermost regions. the impact of the agreements on european and outermost banana-producing regions will therefore also be monitored and carefully considered. the council then mentioned - and i am glad to hear that because it is a very important point - the need to work on the transparency of the agri-food chain, because we are always talking about producers, but there is also the great issue of banana distribution within the union. so there are many things to do in future projection: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but all these things, not least consumer protection, must necessarily start from a definition of the present situation, from a definition of the conclusion of these disputes in which the european union is defeated by the united states and the countries of latin america. i therefore hope that these agreements will be approved, because i believe that they are an essential starting point for the operation of the instruments relating to the delicate banana market, which can also be used in a penetrating and useful way for other interests such as those of consumers, which are linked to the transparency of the food chain, and therefore can allow for improvements relating to the banana market and also to our european producers, which are impossible without a solid starting point such as the settlement of these disputes within the world trade organisation, to which the union is a party.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again called upon to assert our role inside and outside the european union. the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, enshrined in the 1948 universal declaration of human rights as well as in our charter of fundamental rights and regional charters, is part of our foreign and social policy. regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishing a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide must be an effective and practical instrument, flexible to the exceptional circumstances in which it operates. the european union's contribution to these battles of civilisation through external cooperation strategies and the proper implementation of the related financial instruments, i.e. the increased effectiveness and visibility of the union's external action in the world, cannot also be exempt from the responsibility, and therefore the control, of its most representative body, the european parliament. i therefore support the amendments proposed, which are clearly in line with the evolution of this ever-growing europe. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely, my political group, the epp, is committed every day and fights every day to ensure that the fundamental rights of human beings are respected all over the world. i believe that the speeches of my distinguished colleagues who have been working here for many years longer than i have confirmed and supported the policy of this parliament. i would like to stress again that i am a member of the political group of the european people's party. we are convinced europeans, convinced of the role that this parliament can play in the world.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the measure in question has some criticisms which can only be overcome if it is discussed again at second reading. in addition to the unworkable rules to the detriment of distributors and, in the fall, consumers, who will be obliged to recover old material and will have to assess its possible reusability, the collection rate is increased from an already unrealistic 65% to even 85%. since waste management is the responsibility of the member states, how can we oblige producers and distributors to recover 85%? if the consumer disposes of the equipment himself, gives it away or resells it, how can others be held responsible for its recovery? the text also provides for the obligation to recover 5% of the refunds for reuse. this means that the environment and consumer safety are being compromised, as old, energy-intensive and potentially dangerous equipment would be put back on the market. if the text remains the one approved in committee and not the one amended by the amendments, we shall vote against it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with much of what i have heard. i think it is an important and fundamental directive, and we will of course vote in favour of it, but i am also convinced that we need some clarifications, which i hope will be possible at second reading. i, for example, expect an impact assessment from the commission as regards the specific scope of the open procedure, because if it would appear to be more environmentally friendly in theory, i think it could give rise to some problems in practice. a closed scope, as is the experience of the current directive, gives us greater certainty and facilitates the application of the legislation. in addition to this impact assessment, there are other aspects. i think we have to be careful to modulate the costs for producers, distributors and retailers. the involvement is right, the accountability is right, but we must be careful not to burden too much with administrative obligations. i think that the instruments and criteria should be adjusted to take account of the different country systems. there are not just good member states and bad member states. there are, as we have heard and as we have already assessed, but i think that here too we need to look more closely at different systems, different situations in the member states, which must be carefully assessed so that there are not some states which automatically benefit and others which are automatically disadvantaged. so we say yes to this directive, but we need more time and more detailed consideration.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
member of the commission. - i think that is a fair enough request. i can tell you that the presidents you have confirmed - and i thank you for that - and who are going to start work are mr maijoor, who is dutch, for the presidency of the markets authority, mr bernardino, who is portuguese, for the presidency of the insurance supervisory authority, and mr enria, who is italian, for the presidency of the banking authority.
mr president, just a correction because there is a rejection in the amendment. it was to be deleted and only 'proposes that the commission should check whether existing sites in protected areas have been extended and whether some of them fall within the scope of protected natura 2000 sites'.
mr president, that is proof that this resolution is political. you don't look at the substance, you don't look at the substance, and you don't want to help the community, but you say nonsense. this is a political motion! i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. i call on the european people's party to vote in favour of the amendments and against this motion by the left, who are responsible for what happened in campania and are now making a motion in parliament. they're responsible! they were in power when all this happened!
mr president, in order to continue the process started in 2006 to improve the efficiency and transparency of the community's external assistance, we had to eliminate the inconsistencies that had emerged with the exceptions to the principle of the non-eligible for union financing of costs relating to taxes, duties and other charges. the amendment of the regulation is therefore necessary and appropriate. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of strategy papers, which supplement regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 and are of general application. i hope that not only will there be adequate consultation during the preparatory work, but above all that the amendments adopted will provide the european parliament with adequate tools to monitor and influence the measures adopted by the commission. only in this way can we ensure the legitimate and democratic functioning of the european union's external assistance policy.
mr president, today we adopted the resolution on waste in campania and this should be a lesson for everyone to prevent environmental disasters like this from happening again. today we can say that we are satisfied because we have always adopted a measure like this in this house, which makes the culture of recycling and reuse in a period of globalisation a measure to be promoted and encouraged in every possible way so that european citizens, now free from the fatigue of producing goods now within everyone's reach, are aware of their real value. the florenz report on the reuse of electrical and electronic equipment, which is being voted on today, is important not only for the future of environmental sustainability in europe, but also for another aspect, that of the loss of raw materials. in fact, the efficient and innovative use of materials and resources is a fundamental aspect of the globalised economy. i therefore welcome the fact that the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves are indicated and that the price is clearly indicated so that the consumer is aware of this too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the revolt of the younger generation in tunisia can have significant repercussions for the european union itself, and for many good reasons, including the formulation of the new eu-tunisia plan for 2011-16, but above all in terms of regulating migration flows. just over a month ago, this parliament itself adopted - and this was the first legislative dossier under the lisbon treaty - a major measure on human trafficking. the increase in irregular migration flows must be combated. that is why we need a european pact covering the southern shore of the mediterranean, tunisia and egypt. to do this, the delegation must go - as it has already done today in tunisia - to assist in this process of complete democratization, but at the same time it must give tunisia a real chance through constant and continuous support for a complete democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that all member states must make a greater effort to combat endemic diseases. as early as 2000, in new york, the united nations put this goal in the millennium development goals declaration. through the eu's framework programme for research and innovation, the eu has already funded the development of vaccines against tuberculosis, with the aim of eradicating it from the population by 2050. to this end, a partnership with over 40 research centres across europe specialising in vaccine development and production has also been promoted. with the adoption of this text, the member states must now commit themselves to respecting their financial commitments, especially towards developing countries, so that the right to health is also a right to prevention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution adopted today by a majority on the waste emergency in campania is a very important signal. the emergency in campania is becoming a european emergency and a decision in favour of the citizens of campania. we say no to the allocation of funds which simply consolidate corrupt politicians, unscrupulous entrepreneurs and the camorra, yes to european money if a credible plan is put forward, a plan for waste which is compatible with the environment, no to uncontrolled landfills in national parks, no to incinerators which produce dioxin, and yes instead to recycling and forms which are compatible with the environment. and we also say no to the criminalization of dissent in local communities and therefore yes to legality. it is an important turning point, a warning to the berlusconi government and the regional government led by caldoro, who have so far done nothing but talk and consolidate the cliques and the mafia bourgeoisie.
in writing. − the waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament is always a sensitive issue to deal with, but in some cases requests for waiver must be analysed within the remit of a member of the european parliament. i do not think that a request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity on the basis of a simple complaint alleging public statements which are considered defamatory can be a valid reason. it is also clear from the immunity regulation that the charges against mr deutsch relate to opinions expressed in the course of his duties as a member of the european parliament; mr deutsch was therefore exercising his duties as a member of parliament by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents. we cannot try to prevent a member from expressing his views on matters of legitimate public interest and that is why i voted in favour of mr speroni's text against the waiver of mr deutsch's immunity.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has today approved the text of the recommendation proposed by mr goerens because it considered it appropriate to amend regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 which established an instrument to finance development cooperation. the union's priority objectives are certainly the promotion of peace, its values and constitutional traditions common to the member states, and the welfare of its peoples. in this respect, the efforts made to support developing countries, particularly those in africa, the caribbean and the pacific, are well known. the aim of this aid is to improve the living conditions of the beneficiary populations by identifying and making available all the instruments needed to enable these countries to embark on a path of growth and empowerment. finally, i would remind you that the amendments we voted for follow a mid-term review of the programme and are aimed at more effective intervention and greater monitoring by the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of development cooperation, i voted in favour of the creation of a financial instrument to encourage this process, since the european union's development policy is aimed at the long-term reduction of poverty. it follows that the integration of development strategies and the promotion of international trade are important elements in poverty reduction. i believe that the financial assistance measures to be adopted in this context are aimed at improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable populations and should therefore facilitate adaptation and inclusion through sectoral support and specific interventions. i also believe that the european union's policy should focus more on substantial integration with developing countries through the creation of an appropriate and specific financing instrument. at present, economic development and growth are the basis for the good functioning of a country. therefore, the promotion of targeted actions in this direction is necessary in order to achieve a stable level of cooperation towards countries at risk.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the decision to re-propose the same amendments which were adopted at first reading and rejected by the council. the proposal, which is part of the wider context of the interinstitutional negotiations on the use of delegated acts in the instruments for financing external action, aims to safeguard the prerogatives of parliament as provided for in the lisbon treaty and, at the same time, to ensure effective control over the implementation of eu legislation. the council's objections to the applicability of the procedure under article 290 tfeu to the instruments in question not only show an unjustified refusal by the council to recognise the role of parliament as co-legislator in the adoption of strategic decisions on the management of financial instruments, but also end up by legitimising an unacceptable democratic deficit in the implementation of community legislation. the council's refusal is contrary to the letter and spirit of the lisbon treaty. i therefore believe that it is necessary, for reasons of legal as well as political expediency, to insist on the adoption of the proposed amendments, so as to strengthen the role of parliament and to ensure that it is placed on an equal footing with the council, while respecting the respective competences and the legislative changes introduced by the treaty.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in december 2006 the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishing a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide. four years after that date, the two institutions considered it appropriate to amend certain articles of the regulation in order to improve both the clarity and the efficiency of the aid provided for therein. my vote in favour of the recommendation is easily explained: the experience of the recent past has taught us that when it comes to the distribution of humanitarian aid, the care that must be taken to ensure that the funds reach the right hands is never too great. i believe that this is the main reason why parliament has today, by its vote, provided the extra quid so that economic assistance can have the effect of protecting democracy and the fundamental human rights for which it was designed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in line with the european union's policies on human rights and the promotion of democracy, i voted in favour of this regulation, as i believe that the values and principles on which our union is founded must be promoted and passed on in the world. however, there are still countries today where human rights are not respected and democracy has no prominent role, and where the population lives in conditions of slavery and subjugation, without freedom of expression. in this respect, i believe that the effectiveness and transparency of the community's external assistance should be improved, so that democracy and human rights can have the importance they deserve in the world. the creation of a financing instrument would therefore be appropriate to facilitate and support such promotion.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported this text because i believe it can help to improve the efficiency and transparency of the european union's external assistance procedures. the implementation of certain regulations has in fact over time revealed inconsistencies as regards derogations from the principle of the non-eligible for eu funding of costs relating to taxes, duties or other charges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the decision to re-propose the same amendments which were adopted at first reading and rejected by the council. the proposal, which is part of the wider context of the interinstitutional negotiations on the use of delegated acts in the instruments for financing external action, aims to safeguard the prerogatives of parliament as provided for in the lisbon treaty and, at the same time, to ensure effective control over the implementation of eu legislation. the council's objections to the applicability of the procedure under article 290 tfeu to the instruments in question not only show an unjustified refusal by the council to recognise the role of parliament as co-legislator in the adoption of strategic decisions on the management of financial instruments, but also end up by legitimising an unacceptable democratic deficit in the implementation of community legislation. by refusing to do so, the council is acting contrary to the letter and spirit of the treaty of lisbon. i therefore believe that it is necessary, for reasons of legal as well as political expediency, to insist on the adoption of the proposed amendments, so as to strengthen the role of parliament and to ensure that it is placed on an equal footing with the council, while respecting the respective competences and the legislative changes introduced by the treaty.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the interinstitutional negotiations on the instruments for financing external action concern the need to ensure democratic control by parliament over the implementation of eu legislation. article 290 of the lisbon treaty allows parliament to object or revoke certain decisions proposed by the commission on where and how the money has been spent. the funds we're talking about will go to causes like civil society organization in belarus or supporting human rights in tunisia. i think the council must act quickly to ensure that a solution can be found and that funds can be released as soon as possible.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on the instrument for financing development cooperation, as i consider cooperation to be one of the important aspects of the eu's external action and relations policy. i believe that the european union's policy should focus more on substantial integration with developing countries through the creation of an appropriate and specific financing instrument. at present, economic development and growth are the basis for the good functioning of a country, and therefore promoting targeted action in this direction is necessary in order to achieve a stable level of cooperation towards countries at risk. the financial aid to be allocated and directed to these countries must be directed towards serious and concrete support to make these countries economically independent of international aid.
in writing. - dear colleagues, the union's development policy is aimed at reducing and, in the long term, eradicating poverty. i would like to reiterate here that the financial assistance measures to be adopted under the programme should improve the standard of living and living conditions of the people living in banana-growing areas and earning income from the banana value chains, more specifically small farmers and small enterprises, and ensure compliance with health, safety at work and environmental protection rules, in particular those concerning the use of and exposure to pesticides. those measures should therefore facilitate adaptation and include, where appropriate, the reorganisation of areas dependent on banana exports through sectoral budget support or project-specific interventions.
in writing. − improving democratic control over human rights funding is a concrete objective we must achieve. but this can only be done with our direct involvement: the european parliament, as a co-legislator, must be able to control directly the decisions on expenditure for the development of third countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. as early as last october this house supported by a large majority the principle of applying delegated acts also to decisions concerning financing to third countries, so that it can exercise its veto power there. the outcome of the negotiations on the use of these instruments will set an important precedent: if we lose this battle, we may have to wait for a new treaty to give us the prerogatives that the lisbon treaty already gives us.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the decision to re-propose the same amendments which were adopted at first reading and rejected by the council. the proposal, which is part of the wider context of the interinstitutional negotiations on the use of delegated acts in the instruments for financing external action, aims to safeguard the prerogatives of parliament as provided for in the lisbon treaty and, at the same time, to ensure effective control over the implementation of eu legislation. the council's objections to the applicability of the procedure under article 290 tfeu to the instruments in question not only show an unjustified refusal by the council to recognise the role of parliament as co-legislator in the adoption of strategic decisions on the management of financial instruments, but also end up by legitimising an unacceptable democratic deficit in the implementation of community legislation. by refusing to do so, the council is acting contrary to the letter and spirit of the treaty of lisbon. i therefore believe that it is necessary, for reasons of legal as well as political expediency, to insist on the adoption of the proposed amendments, so as to strengthen the role of parliament and to ensure that it is placed on an equal footing with the council, while respecting the respective competences and the legislative changes introduced by the treaty.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my decision to vote in favour of the creation of a financing instrument for cooperation with the industrialized countries, which was approved by a very large majority, is fully in line with the common line of applying article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the treaty of lisbon has entered into force and the criteria of article 290 are no longer subject to political negotiations or special agreements. i believe that cooperation with the industrialized countries is a necessary step for the european union to take, so that all the member states can benefit from a financing instrument that serves to increase the growth and development of the union. in the current situation, the eu must move towards a future of change, economic development and prosperity, and cooperation with the industrialised countries would make this process easier and widely shared.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind the situation in the banana trade, considering that bananas represent the fourth largest market for agricultural exports worldwide and that their production has a major impact on local communities, and considering that the tariff quota system in force in the eu has created the conditions which allow the acp countries to export considerable quantities of bananas to the eu, while safeguarding a large number of jobs linked to this production, my favourable position on this point emphasises that the agreements reached constitute a solution to the various disputes which have arisen so far. in saying this, i want to emphasize that the eu will gradually reduce its duties on imported bananas from latin america, so that acp banana exporters will benefit from further support through a new programme, the 'mab'. i also believe that due consideration should be given to the socioeconomic importance of the banana sector as a means of achieving economic and social cohesion, because of the income and employment it generates.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the work done by the rapporteur. i agree with the process of liberalization of banana trade which follows the agreements reached within the wto and the bilateral agreements with the countries of central and south america. i believe, however, that at the same time it is necessary to guarantee european producers, who have always been involved in the production and processing of bananas and who play a fundamental social role in certain european regions, such as guadeloupe, martinique, madeira and the azores. for these reasons, i think that the council and the commission should take account of these situations through long-term economic impact studies and through appropriations for the above areas to ensure that, in parallel with the trend towards liberalisation of the banana market, european producers remain competitive.
in writing. the draft council decision on the conclusion of agreements on trade in bananas between the european union and countries of the americas and latin america is important in order to facilitate trade in one of the world's most widely used food commodities after rice, wheat and maize. i voted in favour of mrs balzani's text because agreements such as this allow for greater marketing and differentiation in the distribution of the product, since only a limited number of producing countries are involved in the banana trade, which is reserved for a small group of multinationals who control over 80% of international trade.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bananas are the fourth most important crop in the world and make a major contribution to the security of global food supplies. despite this, only 20% of production is traded internationally. the business is virtually in the hands of five large multinationals which, alone, control over 80% of the international banana trade. on 15 december 2009, the eu reached an agreement on a new tariff regime with the united states and a group of latin american countries, ending a longstanding dispute as acp countries could export bananas to europe with customs benefits and distorting the market, mainly to the detriment of south american producers. the agreement will make the global banana market less unpredictable and more stable, thereby encouraging investment and growth in the sector. the european parliament must now ensure that the commission and the council take specific initiatives to strengthen the commercial position of banana growers by submitting to parliament as soon as possible an impact assessment of the effects of the agreements on the producer producer countries and the outermost regions of europe. finally, there should be no attempt to finance the acp banana-producing countries by reallocating resources from those allocated to development cooperation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bananas are the fourth most important crop in the world, after rice, wheat and maize, and they make a decisive contribution to food security. in december 2009, the european union, a group of latin american countries and the united states reached an agreement on the tariff regime applicable to imports of bananas into the union. the signing of this agreement put an end to one of the longest-running disputes in the recent history of the multilateral trading system. in fact, in the recent past, banana import policies have been the subject of a decade-long dispute within the wto between the eu and several latin american banana-producing countries and the united states. we cannot, however, ignore the possibility that the change in tariff rates resulting from the application of the agreement will have a negative impact on the livelihood of the union's banana producers. i therefore urge the commission to carry out a serious and independent impact study in the coming months to assess the possible negative effects and consequences of the entry into force of the agreement for european banana producers and, if necessary, to revise the aid measures provided for under the posei programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs balzani on the repeal of the 2005 council regulation on the tariff applied to trade in bananas from latin american countries. the issue has also been discussed within the wto as latin american countries have denounced the discriminatory and illegal nature of the eu import regime regulation which provided for tariff rates for south american countries and facilitations for acp countries. i felt it was my duty to vote in favour of the repeal of a regulation which has only created international controversy by destabilising the production and commercial environment of the countries concerned. the new agreement will make the global banana market less unpredictable and more stable.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bananas are the fourth most important crop in the world, after rice, wheat and maize, and they make a decisive contribution to food security. yet, in most producing countries, bananas are destined exclusively for the domestic market and, on an occasional basis, for the regional market, to the extent that only 20% of the total production is traded internationally. analysing the data provided in the report, eu consumers bought over 5,4 million tonnes of bananas in 2008. almost 90% of the bananas consumed in the union were imported (72.5% from latin america and 17% from the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries). i am therefore convinced of the importance of this agreement and i reiterate my vote in favour of the agreement reached.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that an essential aspect of a globalised economy is the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources. with reference to the report under discussion, i would remind you that waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union. the current weee directive requires member states to separate the collection of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets. the analysis carried out in the context of the revision process of this directive has revealed a number of problems in its application. in particular, the problem of extending the scope of the directive arises. experience shows that the scope of the directive has been interpreted and applied in a highly heterogeneous way by the member states and that it is not advisable to establish a definitive list of products, since the electrical and electronic products sector is a rapidly changing market which would require a continuous revision of the directive, without it ever being able to be truly updated. i therefore believe that it is essential to work towards better harmonisation of the weee directive and to reduce the administrative costs borne by small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector, without compromising the level of environmental protection.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the aim of this directive and i am convinced of the need to separate waste in order to reduce the environmental impact and increase recycling. two steps are required for this: used household appliances must be disposed of properly and their management optimised. the directive addresses both points, with absolutely identical aims. however, i must point out some criticisms. firstly, the objectives set are too ambitious and could be counterproductive. i also think that the cost of disposal should be included in a wider scheme of incentives and penalties, and that it should be transparent to those who will have to bear it. nevertheless, some points of considerable interest also emerge. i believe, for example, that information should be given to consumers in the most effective way possible, to avoid bad manners due to misinformation. in view of the objectives and general scheme of the directive, i am in favour of approval. i am sure, however, that there is room for improvement in the details, and i am referring in particular to the additional charges for traders in connection with the collection of small equipment for disposal. with these interventions we are playing with the health of the environment and the sustainability of our lifestyle.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive to be voted on today concerns the amendment of the weee directive, which requires member states to separate the collection of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets, including the fixing of a collection rate of 65% of weee, to be achieved by 2016. as is well known, the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is a fundamental aspect of a globalised economy. it is a responsibility which concerns all those involved in the market, from public authorities to consumers and producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. i also believe that it is essential, in addition to the commitment to comply with the commission's instructions, to avoid burdensome administrative obligations and the imposition of excessively burdensome requirements on producers, distributors and retailers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the revision of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment was intended to encourage the separate collection, recovery and recycling of this type of waste. theoretically, therefore, this line should have been supported. however, some amendments have been made to the report, which are very burdensome, especially for small traders who are obliged to bear new bureaucratic costs and obligations which are difficult to sustain, and for this reason i have decided to vote against the proposal.
in writing. - electrical and electronic equipment is now a huge category of consumer goods and therefore also a huge amount of waste with risks, considering the type of waste, of serious damage to the environment and the health of citizens. the report on the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment aims to regulate at european level the collection of waste electrical and electronic equipment and its treatment and recycling, by setting out the quantities and percentages. i therefore supported the report by mr florenz, which requires member states to separate the collection of electrical waste by at least 4 kg per inhabitant per year, to reach a quorum of 65% for separate collection by 2016 and to recycle at least 5% of materials, also in order to avoid the waste of raw materials.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this important achievement. waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union and poses a number of challenges. on the one hand, the environmental and health consequences of improper handling or disposal of such equipment must be considered, while on the other hand the loss of raw materials is a major problem. the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is a key aspect of a globalised economy. an increased collection rate and proper treatment in accordance with the directive therefore represent a major challenge. the aim of the proposed amendments is to achieve a higher separate collection rate, reduce waste leakage under the weee system and prevent illegal shipments, and to bring weee treatment to a high level. it is also necessary to reduce the current national red tape, thus removing the obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote updates the 2003 waste electrical and electronic equipment directive by addressing issues such as the consistent application of the relevant provisions, the simplification of the rules and the reduction of administrative costs. the final objective, as already envisaged by the envi committee, is to collect 85% of weee waste electrical and electronic equipment by 2016, recycling between 50% and 75% of it depending on the category. the aim of the text approved is not only to recover valuable raw materials but also to stem the illegal flow of e-waste outside the eu, which poses risks to health and the environment when treated below minimum standards. it will now be essential to reach an agreement with the council, which has promised to reconsider its position after today's vote.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the european union has been examining its neighbourhood policy, stressing the distinction between the political objectives pursued by the mediterranean member states and those of the middle east and the north. but all this has not led to an analysis that has been able to prevent what has happened and is still happening in several african countries. the motion for a resolution tabled today in this chamber seems to me to be in full agreement with the objectives which the whole of the european parliament wants to pursue in relation to the situation in tunisia. condemn the repression and disproportionate use of violence, demand the freezing of assets improperly acquired by the ben ali family and support the establishment of three committees to combat the corruption that has characterized tunisia's system of government over the past 23 years: these are the demands made today by the european parliament. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to help the people of the country through a task force, which the european parliament could also take part in organising. i believe it is essential at this time that the european union makes its presence felt by the tunisian people, leading them back to a genuine democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in tunisia in order to express, together with my colleagues, the position of the european parliament on the 'jasmine revolution'. the partnership between tunisia and the european union, relations with the maghreb countries in the union for the mediterranean and all good neighbourly relations must be effectively pursued in order to make possible for the tunisian people, with whom we express full solidarity, an orderly and peaceful transition to an effective democratic system. the eu's assistance must be a warning to ensure a fair electoral process and respect for human rights, and it must seek to support and advise the tunisian people to avoid any drift towards fundamentalism. the union cannot fail to be committed to the cause of democracy and human rights.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the unrest in tunisia in recent days has already claimed at least 35 confirmed victims. the european parliament's delegation for relations with the maghreb countries has already called for an independent inquiry into the government's responsibility for the use of violence during the street clashes. the state of emergency in which this traditionally secular, progressive and democratic country finds itself must be ended immediately, allowing the tunisian authorities to restore normal democratic processes. for their part, all european governments, including the swiss one, must commit themselves to cooperating with a view to the return of the money and assets acquired by the ben ali family. finally, the growth and spread of the salafist movement, which would promote a radical version of islam in tunisia, must be prevented from taking root.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tuberculosis is unfortunately one of the main causes of death in the world. in fact, it causes about two million deaths a year. the resolution calls on the eu to pursue the un millennium development goals (mdgs) to halt the spread of this serious disease by 2015. the estimated figures are worrying and give rise to serious concern about the seriousness of the situation, especially in the poorer countries where deaths due to tb occur more frequently. the joint motion for a resolution on the tuberculosis vaccine therefore has my full support because, in addition to focusing the spotlight on the health conditions in the third world countries, it seeks to solve the underlying problem by providing more funding and supporting scientific research.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that tuberculosis is still one of the main causes of death in the world, claiming millions of lives every year, and considering that despite this there is not enough research being done at the moment on the most neglected diseases affecting only developing countries, my position is clearly in favour of the initiative on the vaccine against this disease. in this respect, only a vaccination programme comprising a large-scale vaccination campaign will have a positive impact on the achievement of the target. i am convinced that in the fight against tuberculosis, vaccines, combined with better tests for detecting infections, are an essential tool that requires a radical change in the direction of research and greater and sustainable funding. i therefore believe that vaccination against tuberculosis should be given priority in clinics in developing countries and that european aid should support national efforts to strengthen human resources.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the vote this morning by which the european parliament gave today the green light to the appointment of mr bernardino of portugal as head of the european insurance authority. it is a victory for the european union and for the european parliament which fought for the creation of this authority, but it is above all a victory for the european citizens who i am sure will be more secure from now on.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against and i am very pleased with the vote this morning by which the european parliament gave the green light to the appointment of the president of the european markets authority. the recent financial crisis has demonstrated the need for careful and thorough supervision in sectors that have escaped regulation in the past. many of the legislative proposals we are considering in the econ committee, from derivatives to short selling, give strong supervisory and control powers to esma, so it is vital that this authority is able to work at full capacity as soon as possible.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we understand the commission's reasons, but it is not by imposing financial penalties that the waste emergency in campania will be solved, nor by suspending the payment of 135 million in aid for the period 2006-2013 and 10.5 million for the period 2000-2006, to finance projects relating to waste. the solution to the emergency lies rather in a healthy renewal of the political and operational situation. the new regional board, which was only established last june, has unfortunately inherited 15 years of neglect and delays. nevertheless, it has already started an integrated waste collection and disposal plan, which also includes the construction of the necessary facilities and agreements with five italian regions for the temporary transfer of waste, pending the plan to become fully operational. future actions will focus on transparency and dialogue between the population and local authorities, on empowering citizens with regard to the disposal of household waste and also on better use of organic waste. i hope that the commission appreciates the will and the commitment of the new regional junta and that it will consider it appropriate to unblock community funds for this region in the short term, in order to encourage its growth, with due and scrupulous controls, always in compliance with community legislation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last plenary session in strasbourg, following oral questions in the chamber on the waste crisis in campania, the european commission intervened in the debate. i am pleased with the exchange of views with the european commissioner for the environment, mr potočnik, who has shown particular sensitivity to the campanian case. the impact of the waste crisis on the tourism sector, as the alarming figures recently released by tourism organisations show, is extremely serious. transport companies are affected, but also small and medium-sized businesses, hotels and accommodation facilities in the region. the impact on employment in the sector is likely to be even more severe if the appropriate intervention measures are not urgently implemented. the italian authorities have already submitted to the commission a plan to restore lawfulness. the policies currently being implemented are aimed not only at cleaning up the campania capital but, above all, at organising an integrated waste cycle for separate collection, reducing the amount of waste produced, setting up modern facilities and cleaning up old landfills. i hope that the problem of waste disposal will be solved quickly and definitively, both to protect the image of italy and the economy of the tourist sector.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am really astonished at the behaviour of my colleagues on the italian left. today's vote is yet another demonstration of how, now that the italian left is a shadow of itself, it is trying to denigrate italy in the european context in order to strike at the berlusconi government. our 17 amendments were designed to soften certain aspects of a resolution which was too harsh on italy, without taking account of a whole series of factors which have shaped this emergency situation and of the efforts made in recent months by the national and regional governments to get out of the crisis once and for all. the resolution explicitly cites and criticizes measures applied by the current government, forgetting that the current mayor of naples, iervolino, belongs to the center-left or, worse still, forgetting the long reign of bassolino, mayor of naples from 1993 to 2000 and governor of campania from 2000 to 2010 as well as for many years extraordinary commissioner for emergency waste. i also regret that some of my centre-right colleagues in other countries did not understand the instrumental nature of this resolution and acquiesced. we shall remember this when we are called upon to show group solidarity on matters of their own interest on which their positions are much less defensible than those of italy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by the efd group contains a line aimed at assigning responsibilities to the administrators of the campania region. the waste cycle and related issues are the responsibility of local authorities, as provided for by current legislation. the document has my support, as it takes a stand against those who are trying to blame others for their own negligence.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the image of naples covered in garbage has gone around the world. so we all know the scale of the problem. however, the tone of the resolution, which tramples on the principle of subsidiarity, is unacceptable, especially since commissioner potočnick himself has said that there are no grounds for imposing further sanctions on italy. the italian left is taking it back and voting against italy, exploiting the european parliament for its own political purposes! this is unacceptable. this is a real disgrace to italy. this attitude of theirs is misleading to many foreign colleagues for whom it is not even conceivable that someone would go against his own country. it is a paradox that the same left which for decades has governed the campania region and which still governs the municipality of naples, with absolute contempt for the entire campania community, is lecturing and attacking those who are struggling to find solutions to this tragic situation. that is why we voted against this partisan, politicized and aggressive motion for a resolution, with the support of our fellow citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote was strongly opposed by italy and by most of the epp representatives, who supported the fight against the joint motion for a resolution on the waste emergency in campania put forward by the left-wing groups. we have been confronted with a work of exploitation of the crisis situation, based on an unobjective document containing false data, whose main purpose is to conceal the efforts made by the national government and local authorities, who have been faced with a situation that is not improving, the result of the bad governance that has led the region in recent years. the document presented in the chamber omitted very important data, such as the continuous comparison between the government authorities and the european commission, which saw the presentation, in a few months, of as many as 3 draft correction and intervention plans. much has been done and much will be done to restore the right of the citizens of naples and the whole of campania to a healthy environment and an adequate standard of living.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in campania, a longstanding problem, because i do not believe that any one government is responsible for the current situation. it is a shame that we have not been able to find a final solution to this problem. i ask that we put aside the political differences and animosities that prevent campania's citizens from breathing clean air and eating healthy food without continuing to undermine their health. the problem must be solved and any media and political exploitation of the matter will only aggravate a situation that has long been unsustainable. the priority of citizens, small and mediumsized tourist enterprises and consumers of campania products is not to define who is responsible for the situation that has arisen, but to find a solution. i therefore support the epp resolution on the waste crisis in campania and i join the call on the commission to unfreeze the community funds intended to help waste management and disposal, which have been suspended since the opening of the infringement procedure against italy. i hope that italy will finally be able to adopt long-term strategic measures in line with european legislation, in the best interests of its citizens and for the country's reputation in the world.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately once again the european parliament has been used as a sounding board for national problems. the professionals of the instrumentalisation, that is the italian and european left, have launched an attack on italy through a resolution full of propaganda and full of mentions about the situation of waste in campania. the serious situation in which campania finds itself today with regard to the waste problem has three very specific names: bass, prodi and hervlin. today, here in europe, the italian left wants to hide the 15 years of their absolute misgovernment, which has led to the disaster we are witnessing, by instrumentalising the european institutions to shift their responsibilities onto the national and regional governments of the centre-right, which are making so many efforts to remedy their shortcomings and failures.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years the urban area of naples has been in a state of constant waste emergency, largely as a result of twenty years of left-wing administration. already in 2003 the investigation into irregularities in waste management led to the former regional council being charged with eight counts, including fraud in public procurement, competition in breach of environmental regulations and abuse of office. in 2008, to deal with 35,000 tons of waste dumped on the streets, the berlusconi government managed to contain the critical phase of the emergency in just 58 days. since then, the number of separate collection sites has increased from 15% to 22%, with five eu-standard landfills and seven waste sorting and treatment plants now in operation. today the region, which since 2010 has finally been led by a centre-right figure, is about to present a new waste disposal plan agreed with the regional commissioner for the environment and, shortly, a strong response is expected from the territory, precisely that local initiative that has been missing in decades of bad left governance, a deficiency compensated only by the initiatives of the government of silvio berlusconi.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, as you rightly pointed out, we are witnessing epochal events which are causing an extraordinary increase in the flow of migrants to europe. although lampedusa is today being hit by this extraordinary flow of migrants, it is the whole of europe that is being called into question for the process of destabilization and change that is affecting the entire maghreb. we therefore consider it absolutely urgent and important that the commission should speak out, not only to respond to the humanitarian implications but also to the more profoundly strategic ones which must lead us to review our policy towards the mediterranean. we therefore ask for a separate debate with commissioner malmström on tuesday afternoon, reducing the time for questions to the commission by half an hour, given the urgency of the matter.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the services directive has always been surrounded by inexplicably optimistic language. it seems that europe expected this directive to open up the market in an extraordinary way, without any contraindications and with only positive effects. today, when the implementation procedure is not yet fully completed in all the countries, we already know that expectations have been at least partly betrayed. there are specific sectors where the directive will not improve the market, the quality of the service offered, let alone create new jobs. i could give many examples, including the market and street vendor sector which, in some member states, such as italy, is an important sector for the tradition and identity of a territory and in which whole families work. this is an area which, in my view, should be excluded from the scope of the services directive. i hope that parliament will ask for a review of the services directive to correct the scope of application which, as it stands, is likely to seriously penalise sectors which are fundamental to the economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the adoption of the services directive was an important achievement in the achievement of an essential objective for the european union, namely the creation of the single market in services. i agree that its full implementation can unlock enormous economic potential and job creation. i would like to stress a few points which i think are worth mentioning. firstly, full and timely transposition of the directive into national law must remain our absolute priority. in this respect, i think that the european parliament should have a stronger role in monitoring the implementation of the directive by the member states. this is both because of the significant contribution parliament itself has made in the long and complex legislative process and because, given the importance of the subject, it is right that the voice of the citizens be represented and taken into account in a fair and fair way. furthermore, the interpretative questions raised by some countries concerning the scope of the directive deserve to be clarified without delay in order to ensure legal certainty and its effectiveness. the creation of one-stop shops for services must be increasingly computerised, with the provision of online services easily accessible, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises which ensure interoperability with other portals in other member states, thus avoiding the language barriers that we have to overcome today. the mutual evaluation process provided for in the directive, if properly carried out, can be very useful in identifying best practices, which can act as an incentive for those countries that are lazier in transposing and promote the convergence of legislation.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, like many other members, i too would like to recall the great effort required of us all in overcoming the many difficulties in order to finally get the services directive passed. four years later, we are now assessing what has been done and i believe that it was necessary to do so. i believe that all possible instruments must be used to ensure that the directive is fully and correctly transposed in all the member states, ensuring that legislative adjustments are also and above all made at regional level, particularly in those countries where federalism is most pronounced. to this end, i think it is of the utmost importance that everyone should make a determined effort to ensure that the directive is implemented in time so as not to frustrate the efforts of the member states which are more advanced in implementing it and which would therefore face a serious difficulty in accessing an internal market which would be hampered in one of its most important components. the difficulty of making known all the novelties and facets of an important directive such as the one under discussion, however, requires that governments, through the competent authorities, systematically organise information and communication campaigns on the contents of the regulatory text, campaigns which have not yet been prepared. i would like to conclude by expressing my disagreement with the arguments made in relation to the mutual evaluation process, which has so far proved to be a very useful procedure, as it has allowed for greater transparency of national legislation and has created a structured dialogue between member states.
in writing. the services market accounts for two thirds of the eu's gdp and jobs, yet only one fifth of total intra-eu trade. i therefore share the rapporteur's priorities, particularly as regards the completion of the single window and the strengthening of administrative cooperation. the first generation of one-stop shops is currently present in 22 member states. this would seem comforting, but only 14 of them allow online procedures to be completed. instead, one-stop shops need to become an integral part of the eu's wider e-government, with the offer available in several languages. finally, it is essential to strengthen administrative cooperation if this whole communication-based system is to function efficiently. the internal market information system (imi) is already a very important aid. it supports the work of the administrations, makes it possible to coordinate different administrative methods and to supplement missing information. however, in future it will be necessary to ensure that this system is not only used but also, and above all, properly applied.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a privilege and an honour for me to address this distinguished audience today. as mr lehne has just mentioned, the presence of the presidency on a monday bears witness to the importance of the issue. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament for its constructive approach with regard to the council’s efforts to improve conditions for obtaining patent protection in the european union. i also wish to extend our gratitude to the former belgian presidency for its relentless efforts to further the cause of the creation of a unitary patent protection. second, i would like to report that this morning the council decided, by an overwhelming majority, to request your consent for the authorisation of enhanced cooperation in this field. subject to your consent, the competiveness council on 10 march is expected to give its authorisation. the hungarian presidency attaches particular importance to improving the eu’s competitiveness and to supporting small- and medium-sized enterprises operating in the eu. it is our joint responsibility to help them with innovation, which is one of the driving forces of competitiveness of smes both at european level and globally. it has been clear from the outset that one of the key elements in fulfilling this objective would be the creation of an eu patent, which has been delayed for more than 30 years. maintaining the status quo is not an option. millions of euros are spent every year on translations and on administrative paperwork to obtain patent protection in the 27 different legal systems in the eu, while in the us an inventor can acquire a patent for the entire us territory for an amount equivalent to 1 850 euros. in the eu it costs 20 000 euros for only 13 member states. according to calculations, european enterprises suffer a loss of seven to eight hundred million euros because of the lack of an eu patent. needless to say, this amount could be put to much better use if channelled, for example, into technological research. there is currently no internal market in terms of patent protection. the applicant is obliged to work with 27 separate national legal systems. as a result, in practice, protection is often sought only in a certain part of the eu territory, thus creating serious problems in terms of the free circulation of goods, which are protected by a patent in some jurisdictions but can be freely produced in others. our clear preference has always been the creation of a truly eu-wide patent that would cover the territory of all 27 member states. we profoundly regret that negotiations relating to the linguistic regime have resulted in a stalemate, with no prospect of reaching the necessary consensus in the foreseeable future. i also need to stress that eu decision-makers are under pressure to make rapid progress in this field. the freshly-released innovation union scoreboard confirms that there is already a yawning gap between the innovation performance of the us and japan and that of the eu, and the major emerging economies are rapidly catching up. although patenting rules are not the only factor determining innovation activity, their importance is obvious to all. each year we keep on working with the current set of rules, our fragmented system becomes less attractive and competitive. under these circumstances the overwhelming majority of the member states consider that the creation of unitary patent protection within the framework of enhanced cooperation is the only way forward for the time being. 27 member states have submitted official requests with a view to establishing enhanced cooperation. their clear expectation is that visible results be achieved within a reasonable time. as the presidency-in-office we will do our utmost to make substantial progress in the field. on the other hand, the presidency has to pay attention to the objections and reservations voiced by spain and italy too. let me turn now to address the distinguished spanish and italian members of this house in their mother tongue. en primer lugar, a los distinguidos diputados de nuestro socio españa. tenemos la confianza de que, mediante la cooperación reforzada, con la creación del sistema de protección unitaria de patentes, damos un paso importante hacia una situación ideal, en la que el sistema de protección unitaria de patentes abarca a todos los países miembros y a todo el territorio de la unión europea. mi rivolgo adesso ai nostri amici italiani. tengo a sottolineare, per evitare ogni sorta di equivoco, che nessuna impresa e nessun individuo, indipendentemente dallo stato di origine, saranno esclusi dai benefici del futuro brevetto unitario. mr president, thank you for your patience. i very much look forward to working with parliament in the future on this subject.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the approval which president lehne is proposing you give to this enhanced cooperation will, if you will, represent a decisive step towards making life easier for european companies and inventors by finally uniting patent protection in europe. it is an incredible weakness and, i believe, unacceptable for the competitiveness of our continent in this extremely tough global competition, that we are not able to protect inventions or creations better and at a reasonable cost, especially in the industrial field. that is why, from the time i was heard before you on 13 january 2010, and on several occasions, i had pledged to take this matter forward so that i could be - it was a kind of wish i had expressed - the last european commissioner to raise this issue. we made a proposal. thanks to the willingness and intelligence of the belgian presidency, it has been completed, strengthened and improved, and we have not - as you know - met the unanimity i had hoped for on this matter. this is why and how the idea of enhanced cooperation was born in the new lisbon treaty. the commission has responded swiftly to the request for enhanced cooperation which was initially addressed to it, as president lehne said, by a dozen member states. as i speak, 25 member states have agreed to this enhanced cooperation. the hungarian presidency, after the belgian presidency, has also shown a great deal of willingness, and i thank it for that. it wants this cooperation to start in march and i am very grateful to parliament, and in particular to you, mr president, klaus-heiner lehne, and to the members of your committee, for the leading role you are playing, together with the committee on legal affairs, in moving this work forward and reaching a rapid conclusion on this matter. the commission wishes to see enhanced cooperation extended to as many countries as possible, and i hope that all the member states will finally support this proposal, which is, i repeat, politically acceptable to all countries and economically necessary for all businesses. it is by being as broad as possible, and if possible unanimous, that this advance will bring the greatest number of benefits to european enterprises and inventors. as commissioner for the internal market, i will ensure that enhanced cooperation remains compatible with the treaties, in particular with the rules governing the functioning of the internal market. this means, ladies and gentlemen, that unitary patent protection - as mrs győri has very well said in italian and spanish - will be available to all companies in the union, regardless of their member state of establishment. there will be no discrimination. in addition, the benefits of unitary protection will be the same for all inventors and innovative enterprises in the union, both in terms of simplified procedures and reduced translation costs. an overall impact analysis of this project has already been carried out and we are currently working on a thorough assessment of its economic impacts. in conclusion, the commission, which regrets that an agreement at 27 has not yet been possible, will do everything possible to implement this enhanced cooperation quickly, as soon as the council of ministers in march has taken a decision by presenting the draft regulations which are necessary for the implementation of this enhanced cooperation, so that we can very quickly bring this real added value to european businesses. i thank you in advance for your attention and support of this proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with unusual speed and dynamism this parliament is about to set the first precedent of enhanced cooperation explicitly concerned with the internal market. the justification given is that the debate on the european patent has been on the agenda for many years. however, it should be noted that the proposal for a regulation on the translation arrangements was adopted by the commission only on 30 june 2010 and that the council noted in november 2010 the lack of unanimity and the difficulty of reaching a unanimous decision in the near future. i would also like to mention the pace at which parliament has dealt with this dossier, which i hope will serve as an example for the future, since not insignificant records have been broken in favour of a rapid and effective legislative process. however, since i do not intend to speak only for the interests of my country, which is currently opposed to enhanced cooperation, and since i believe that the patent issue is fundamental to the development of industry and the european business system, i would just like to point out a few issues which i believe are important for the exercise of the legislative functions of this house and for the future discussion of the patent regulations. first of all, it is good to be aware that a vote in favour of enhanced cooperation will systematically legitimize the application to the development of the internal market of an instrument which should instead have a value of last resort. we are therefore setting a precedent which can be used in all areas of the internal market. i also believe that this parliament can then - when we deal with the other subjects - express itself in a comprehensive and autonomous way and that the individual proposals should be centred on the interests of users and businesses rather than on individual groups of states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of a european patent is no longer acceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the fragmentation of patent rights is one of the causes of the delay in economic recovery. the commission is proposing enhanced cooperation with a special language regime, which we do not like. but now there's a new one: 25 out of 27 countries join; it changes the political landscape. perhaps a positive development is possible, for example by also promoting the language of the proposer. we must all work now to achieve a greater respect for all. we want the italian language to be protected and valued, but our government has cut funding and is neglecting this aspect. we shall be able to do so in this other area, but we must obtain a european patent.
in writing. intellectual property rights represent the most concrete recognition of the research and innovation work that european businesses do every day to overcome competitive challenges and create wealth for the benefit of all. they must therefore be protected in every way and form. i appreciate that the european parliament is concerned about this and i am very pleased to be able to take part in the vote on this subject. yet, as the saying goes, "the road to hell is paved with good intentions". in other words, it is not enough to be willing to make a good provision which really makes the work of firms easier and protects them from unfair competition from those who copy at lower costs, because it does not involve the long and costly work of finding new solutions to the various problems. in this case, from my knowledge of the territory i represent, i believe that the language barrier introduced for the application for a patent represents a disproportionate cost for our companies. i am asking myself, in a provocative way, how much a trilingual system could affect the work of this parliament, and the amount of the budget chapter on translation and interpretation is much more eloquent than any answer. i can only vote against.
on behalf of the efd group. in recent years, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the global financial crisis has made it increasingly difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises to obtain loans and easy, if indispensable, access to credit. the instruments put in place by the european union in the 2007-2013 programming period have so far shown some serious shortcomings, such as a lack of resources and coverage, the presence of heavy administrative constraints, and a dispersion into multiple and different lines of intervention. the new funding programme will therefore have to aim at simplifying the rules for small and medium-sized enterprises - a serious obstacle, especially for the smallest ones - and consider, for example, the establishment of a single window to access european funding. the use of new financial instruments should be encouraged, which should facilitate access to credit, ensure sound guarantee schemes and, especially for the most innovative and technological enterprises, provide real help in the difficult initial phase of development. we must therefore try to make the path as smooth as possible for what is a reality which provides jobs for over 100 million people in europe and is certainly the most powerful engine of growth and development.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of fundamental importance to strengthen the commitment to support small and mediumsized enterprises at european level because, as has been said, they have a weight and a decisive role in the community's social fabric and are the real protagonists of economic recovery. i would like to point out that between 2002 and 2008, with their strong growth in the 27 countries, they created 9.4 million new jobs, and are already the real engine of employment. now, as a result of the crisis, they have lost a third of the jobs that had been created. it is therefore necessary to think of concrete instruments which will restore to small and mediumsized enterprises their capacity to produce and create new jobs, so that the whole of society benefits from this. access to credit is certainly one of the key points, the one most heard by entrepreneurs. in the first part of 2010, 18 percent of smes were denied a bank loan. the previous year, this figure was 12%, according to a survey by the european central bank. access to credit, as well as administrative simplification and access to markets, will be among the key points of the small business act, which will be presented next week in rome by commissioner tajani and which we welcome very much. finally, i would like to mention my origins in a part of italy - the north-east - which has seen enormous development and growth thanks to an intelligent credit system, which has accompanied the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. let us follow that example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated the speech by commissioner tajani, who once again emphasized a primary factor, that of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are seen and lived as a production model, and hence as a social model, because they are a key element in the field of employment. the current economic crisis is not a passing one but a structural one, linked to the change in markets, which is also a consequence of globalisation. the backbone of european industry is made up of 99% small and mediumsized enterprises. the motion for a resolution stresses certain essential requirements, namely: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. as the commissioner himself has recently stressed, more simplification and flexibility are needed, as well as more resources for innovation and research; the need for the european commission to develop new, clearer and more understandable guidelines to facilitate access to useful information for smes; a new vision of trust: in a time of crisis, it is not just small and mediumsized firms that can pay while the banking systems continue to make and increase their profits. it is important to ensure that the new programming of the european commission takes account of these needs in order to avoid that the europe 2020 strategy is not just a nice empty box, but contains the appropriate tools to achieve the objectives it sets.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although this is a late subject, i think it is an important subject to be taken very seriously because the therapeutic use of umbilical cord stem cells must be supported, as must initiatives and information campaigns promoted at all levels, especially at european level, aimed at spreading the possibility of stem cell donation. you said earlier that this is not a matter for europe. but could not the transposition of directive 23 of 2004 define the quality and safety standards for the donation, control, storage and distribution of the cells themselves? however, it is necessary to ensure a consistent application of different national legislation across european countries, to ensure that all european patients and parents have the same rights and are subject to the same rules. it is particularly important that cord blood be stored in national and european public blood banks so that it can effectively reach all patients who really need it, avoiding omertà and ensuring that everyone has the same rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, 14 february, is european day of epilepsy, a disease which affects 6 million european citizens and some 300 000 italians. it is therefore important that meetings be organised by associations, including the italian association against epilepsy, aimed at raising awareness of such a serious disease, about which there is still a lot of ignorance, clear information is lacking and many very sensitive aspects are not known. progress has been made in recent years at european level, notably through a 2009 directive, but much remains to be done, particularly to ensure full citizenship for people with dementia in the world of work and mobility, and to ensure the availability of medicines during school hours. i therefore consider the days of reflection on such fundamental aspects of this problem to be very important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is intended to give voice to the thousands of families of fishermen in southern italy, particularly in the regions of campania and sicily, who represent half the small-scale fishing fleet. the latter are experiencing an unjust, if not unnecessary, blockade on the fishery of the plaice, a blockade devoid of any scientific foundation and of any political sense. by doing so, the union will increasingly be seen as an enemy by our fishermen, who are dragging a large economy into national rather than european gdp. we asked some members - some of whom are also in the chamber this evening - about two or three weeks ago to meet commissioner damanaki. although we were assured of this, we have not received a reply since then, despite the fact that the commissioner himself was committed to finding a better solution to all these problems, showing great political sensitivity at the time. once again, we are saddened to see that the bureaucracy in brussels has the upper hand over politics! i therefore think it is appropriate that this parliament, thanks to the treaty of lisbon, should once and for all make a commitment to overcome certain kinds of dull and short-sighted thinking. we therefore ask the commissioner to report to the house on this matter and to discuss it in parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out the serious situation facing italian fishermen who are denied the right to fish for cod, with immediate damage to the thousands of families who derive their livelihood from this activity. the only period of fishing for this species, from the beginning of january to 31 march, is being spent in complete immobility by commissioner damanaki and his staff, and no decision has yet been taken. on 1 february, i personally, together with a delegation of four other members, including mr antinoro, who is present in this chamber, asked the commissioner to act quickly and he promised to give us an answer within a few days. but we have had no response to date, which shows the commissioner's inability to react to a situation which would have warranted immediate action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transition to a low-carbon economy and the achievement of the objectives set out in the climate package require the definition of rules to regulate co2 emissions in various sectors, including the automotive sector. i am very pleased with the negotiations which led to the agreement with the council on the emission limit of 147 grams of co2/km by 2020. this is a feasible limit and a good balance between environmental, social and industrial standards. i hope that i too have made a contribution as a shadow rapporteur in the itre committee. the agreement reached takes account not only of the economic crisis in the sector but also reasonably takes account of the difference between the car sector and that of light commercial vehicles. as with the cars regulation, the european car industry will be able to develop green, competitive and environmentally friendly technology for light commercial vehicles. i hope that it will also take up the environmental challenge and invest even more in innovation and research.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal initially set a long-term emission limit for light commercial vehicles of 135 grams of co2/km by 2020. in the unanimous opinion of the manufacturers, it was technically impossible to comply with this limit. if the text were to be adopted as it stands, the co2 reduction would be 0.00014 per cent worldwide, with a very high economic impact of over eur 45 billion for europe alone, which would inevitably lead to an increase in prices of about eur 3800 on average per vehicle. despite the criticisms, an agreement was reached at first reading with the council setting the emission limit by 2020 at 147 gr/km co2, subject to feasibility which the commission will have to verify by january 2013. however, this decision is purely political and does not take into account actual industrial, market or consumer conditions. we will vote against this because we believe that the economic impact is excessive compared to the insignificant reduction in co2 emissions worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the result achieved is extremely ambitious. i would remind you that the co2 emissions per square kilometre of these vehicles are currently around 200 grams. a reduction to 147 per cent therefore reduces that threshold by more than 25 per cent. i would also point out that marginal reductions are the most costly, which is why we must be careful. i also believe that we cannot compare - as has often happened in this house - this particular category of vehicle with that of passenger cars, because the production cycles are much longer and this would only represent 1.5% of the co2 emissions of the whole transport sector. if we have not achieved the central objective, we will be penalizing a sector which has already suffered a sharp decline of over 30%, particularly affecting those small and mediumsized enterprises which, just 12 hours ago, we all said in this house that we wanted to support because of the great economic and social role they play, the only real engine of employment for europe. so be careful! i commend the work done, but we must be very careful about monitoring.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise reached with the council certainly seems more balanced and realistic than the commission's initial proposal, which was so ambitious as to be somewhat utopian, since it did not take due account of industrial conditions and the impact on the market. environmentalism that is too ideological always runs the risk of leading to a lack of practical results and ultimately to damage the environment. in my view, the long-term target of 147 gr/km co2 by 2020, while not yet optimal, may be more reasonable and realistic than the one initially proposed. i also welcome the incentives for eco-innovation, but i think there is one critical point: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. i hope that the commission will honour its commitment to present a specific legislative proposal by the end of this year.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations which i conducted the first year alone and then, in the conciliation phase - i would like to recall that this was the first conciliation after lisbon - with the leadership of vice-president kratsa-tsagaropoulou and the support of the chairman of the tran committee, mr brian simpson, were more arduous and difficult than expected. the 70 million european bus passengers will also benefit from a whole range of rights which have been very limited or almost nonexistent compared to other modes of transport. the objectives we set ourselves in the negotiations with the three presidencies that have taken turns on this important dossier were the following: a regulation protecting non-discriminatory access to bus transport; a regulation which took account of the specific characteristics of the sector, which employs small and medium-sized enterprises on which it was not possible to impose additional and excessive economic burdens; a regulation to cover a regulatory gap which placed the bus transport sector in an anomalous position compared with other modes of transport and thus ensured minimum guarantees for all passengers; a regulation to protect the rights of persons with reduced mobility as best as possible, given the rigid conditions prevailing in the council; a regulation that takes account of the needs of an ageing population for which public transport will be an indispensable resource in the coming decades. the text put to the vote today is the result of a compromise which has been very difficult, but which we are satisfied with in view of the direction taken by the debate and the negotiations themselves. the main problems were mainly in defining the scope of application. the regulation applies to all regular services, whether regional, national or crossborder, covering distances of more than 250 km. however, a list of fundamental rights is provided for which cannot be derogated from, irrespective of this distance. these rights mainly focus on the right to transport, training, information and liability. as regards the 250 km distance, the regulation essentially provides for compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, the rights of passengers in the event of cancellation or delay, and the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. in addition, as regards complaints, carriers shall establish and implement a complaint handling mechanism for the rights and obligations set out in this regulation. the time needed to provide a final response may not exceed three months from receipt of the complaint. finally, each member state must designate a new body - preferably one that already exists - to be responsible for the application of this regulation. member states may derogate from the application for a period of four years, renewable once, after notifying the european commission of the reasons. the member states are also urged and invited to develop in future a single ticket for each mode of transport and a single national body responsible for passenger rights for all modes of transport. the final text can be considered a satisfactory and balanced compromise. the outcome of the conciliation procedure must be considered a success for parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank mr cancian for his commitment to this difficult compromise. this regulation also allows bus passengers to enjoy rights similar to those of passengers on other means of transport, such as trains or ships. the regulation, which applies to all national or crossborder services where the distance to be covered is equal to or greater than 250 kilometres, also protects passengers using regular services over shorter distances. i am referring in particular to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility, who have been granted non-discriminatory access to transport and have been provided with the right to compensation in the event of loss or damage to wheelchairs and disability training for bus staff. i am also pleased that an agreement has also been reached on compensation in the event of death, including a reasonable sum for funeral expenses and personal injury, loss of or damage to luggage due to accidents. i also regard it as a positive factor that the passenger can choose between continuing the journey without paying any additional charges and being reimbursed for the ticket price in the event of cancelled departure, delay of more than two hours or overbooking. as regards passenger information, i think it would have been useful to provide passengers with information on coincidences with other means of transport, thus also ensuring a dialogue between passenger transport services by bus and those by rail. finally, i am pleased that the negotiations have succeeded in finding and guaranteeing the best possible assistance for disabled people and persons with reduced mobility, by giving them the opportunity to choose an accompanying person without incurring any additional costs.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their mostly positive comments. we now face the challenge of implementation. we face this challenge with all passenger rights legislation. fine-tuning the legislation will of course be a long process for us, but i still think that the compromise we have achieved will probably be adopted in a future document and is a great opening. it is also a matter of principle that we have introduced certain principles of passenger rights into bus and coach transport, which is such a large area. modest compromises will probably be needed; everything must be fine-tuned and must be implemented, but it is a very important opening and i hope that you will vote in favour of this regulation.
the president of the council. - madam president, this is officer. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i would just like to make two comments and respond to the very valuable debate that has been held. the debate we have heard here has shown very well what the difficult points were that the rapporteur, we in the council, the commissioner and the experts had to deal with. i don't think it's the best of all possible worlds for bus passengers, but i think, and perhaps the question we should be asking ourselves most, is whether things will be better when this new legislation comes into force. and i think the answer to that question is, yes, bus travelers will have more rights in the future, even if it's not the most perfect compromise. a compromise is about getting along on difficult issues. this was reflected in almost all the speeches on the question of where the line should be drawn to guarantee rights to the extent that it would be impossible to guarantee them to the economic operators, small and medium-sized enterprises, who are important to us and whose situation we are trying to monitor, but at the same time we wanted to guarantee additional rights for these passengers. i have a lot of sympathy for all of you who are looking at this from the perspective of people with disabilities. i think we've made a significant step forward here. i feel like a well-crafted part of the bill and i'm confident that from their perspective, yes, especially from their perspective, that legislation will make progress. i would just like to remind honourable members that the hungarian presidency is thinking about a strong european union, a european union which guarantees citizens additional rights and always puts the citizen at the centre of these strong policies, and i am convinced that this current debate on this draft law also serves to ensure that citizens can enjoy additional rights in the european union. once again, i thank you all for your work, and i trust we will pass the vote today without any problems.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking all the members who have spoken, i too express the conviction that this is not the best possible regulation but the only one that could be achieved in view of the council's position. this is a very important issue, because i believe that it is really strategic for both the transport sector and tourism - two subjects for which the tran committee is responsible - that a balance has been reached for this mode of transport too. it is a question of balancing the need to protect small and mediumsized enterprises in the bus transport sector - we have been discussing this for some time the protection of smes in general - with the need to protect the rights of people with reduced mobility, people with disabilities, the elderly or people with temporary reduced mobility, who are ultimately the most vulnerable users, so that there are even fewer disputes. this is the balance we have been seeking and, with the contribution of all, we hope to have achieved. the revision then announced by commissioner kallas, i believe, is to be inspired by the creation of a single regulation for all modes of transport. the creation of a single transport market has not so far been accompanied by adequate measures to protect passenger rights. i hope, commissioner, that in addition to the single regulation, we will also have the creation of a single reference body, a single ticket office and a single ticket for the various modes of transport. i would like to thank once again all the members who have spoken, those who have followed the dossier, especially as shadow rapporteurs, and those who have participated enthusiastically in the final negotiations. i thank the tran committee and the staff of the secretariat, the council, in particular the staff of the belgian presidency, and not least minister győri, who is here. finally, may i thank the european commission, commissioner kallas and his staff for the constructive contribution they have always made, the staff of the secretariat of the conciliation committee of the european parliament, who have shown great competence and professionalism, which are indispensable when it comes to making important decisions for our citizens. in the end, it was a good test, which produced excellent results for parliament.
thank you, mr bradbourn, for the suggestion. we will pass on your observations to the quaestors so that they may take any action necessary.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
madam president, the aim of the services directive, which came into force in december 2006, is to open up the market to service providers in the european union by eliminating all protectionist barriers, arbitrary obstacles and any discriminatory rules. the european parliament has always insisted, however, that this directive must not be used as a pretext for dangerous deregulation and liberalization of the sector, thus undermining the rights of workers. the country of origin principle, which has been criticised as a precursor to social dumping, has been abolished and replaced by the country of destination principle. i voted in favour of this report because, as regards the transposition of the directive by the member states, it has the merit of pointing out unjustified delays and shortcomings, as well as some disputes concerning its interpretation and application. i shall end here, madam president, because it is rather difficult to speak in these circumstances.
madam president, i voted against the adoption and application of the services directive, the so-called bolkenstein directive, with all my heart. the aim of the directive was to produce greater competition in europe by providing aid for the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. unfortunately, however, the real objective has been to take over and attack our companies, which are small and mediumsized enterprises. in italy we have sectors which are of excellence, such as the bathing areas, where the owners have invested all their assets and for which they have made enormous sacrifices. now, thanks to this directive, they've lost everything. this is not the system to be implemented in a europe of bureaucrats and large industrial groups, of multinationals that want to penetrate italian territory and overwhelm our companies. we cannot afford that and i will stand by these small and mediumsized enterprises and defend them, because we are committed to our traditions and to italian excellence.
mr president, the commission proposal for a regulation presented in 2008 was intended to introduce new rights at european level to protect bus passengers comparable to those applied in other modes of transport, thus ensuring a level playing field between carriers and between the different modes of transport in the various member states. it took a long and difficult negotiation with the council, including the conciliation procedure, to reach the text voted on today. the final text can be considered a very satisfactory and well-balanced compromise, since it succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without at the same time imposing a heavy burden on the carriers, which - we must not forget - are mostly small and mediumsized enterprises. the outcome of the conciliation procedure can rightly be considered a success for the european parliament in that some of our main demands have been met, namely the scope, the fundamental rights of passengers regardless of distance, derogations and, finally, the cases of accidents, cancellations and delays through the provision of appropriate forms of reimbursement, assistance and compensation for passengers.
mr president, we are entering a new era of rights, rights which could have been more widely spread. we must be aware that, below 250 kilometres, the rights of the weakest, the disabled, the elderly and those with reduced mobility are not addressed in this measure. while it is true that uniform quality standards are established, it is also true that the exclusion of local transport greatly limits the number of travellers involved. the implementation over the next four years will allow the sector to prepare itself better, but it will be necessary to keep an eye on the establishment of the implementing bodies. the outcome of this work is a success for parliament and a positive sign of attention to the needs of citizens. but compromise is always a mediation - in this case, a downward mediation - of the will of this house. we have shown that we are good interpreters of needs, unlike the council, which has shown itself to be the sole bearer of interests.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr cancian on the excellent work he has done in bringing this measure to fruition. mr mastella will allow me to disagree with him in that i think this is a great achievement for our citizens. it cannot be denied that citizens are protected only when they travel more than 250 kilometres by tram or bus. where is the protection of the rights of the citizens of europe, which - as mrs gesine meissner has already said - includes whole states such as cyprus, luxembourg and malta, which are excluded from this protection? that is why our group voted in abstention. we did not vote against because certain positive rights are protected, such as those of the disabled and of people with reduced mobility. that is why we abstained. but for the rest, we ask that the matter be brought back as soon as possible so that the rights of citizens can be protected in a real way.
mr president, i congratulate mr cancian on the excellent work he has done and in particular on the good result achieved in the conciliation procedure with the council. the compromise reached, both in terms of the scope of the directive and the inclusion of 12 fundamental rights in the proposal, represents an important step forward in the protection of passenger rights. the rights and needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility have been duly taken into account in the proposal, in particular as regards non-discriminatory access to transport, the right to compensation in the event of loss of or damage to mobility equipment, the lodging and handling of complaints, disability training for bus staff, information to be provided during the journey. the final text also succeeded in guaranteeing passenger rights without at the same time burdening the industry's carriers, which, being largely small and medium-sized enterprises, could not have borne heavy burdens on their own.
madam president, the path that led to the vote on this report today was a long one and i therefore join my colleagues in congratulating mr cancian, who has made this path in a very stubborn way. all modes of transport now finally have their own regulations on passenger rights. i think the next step is to draw up a single text, which will bring together all these different regulations. the scope is reasonable, although we would have dealt with it on other grounds, but the fact that we have succeeded in including almost all european countries except two is certainly a positive thing, as is the fact that many articles have been made compulsory even below 250 kilometres, and this without any other compensation. in the debate this morning some colleagues made claims which have fortunately been refuted by the present speeches, namely that there was no adequate protection for passengers with reduced mobility. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, the council has submitted a proposal for a decision authorizing an enhanced cooperation procedure in the area of the establishment of unitary patent protection, because some member states, including italy and spain, have repeatedly expressed their opposition to the adoption of the proposed translation system, i.e. a trilingual system, which would end up being truly discriminatory, since it clearly violates the principle of linguistic equality of all the official languages of the union. despite the many negotiations that have taken place so far and the vote this morning, it seems impossible to adopt the regulation unanimously. however, legal and institutional reasons would suggest, or would have suggested, that we await the opinion of the court of justice, due in the next few days, which could not only clarify a number of technical aspects of the unified patent system but also highlight all the legal consequences arising from it. it is not the path she has chosen and that is why i voted against it.
mr president, we live in a market where our companies are operating in global competition. the spirit of the reform of the language regime for patents, as announced by the commission, is to reduce the costs of translation in order to be competitive on the markets, especially the asian market, where we are in competition with the united states. i wonder, therefore, whether it would not have been more efficient to patent only one language. this would really help our businesses to compete in the global market. as is well known, there are two legal systems in europe at present, with different characteristics and rules. i think it would have been more appropriate to harmonize them. finally, the establishment of enhanced cooperation is not only contrary to the spirit of the european union but also damages the internal market, which is subject to geographical segmentation and distortion of competition between member states, which means that some states will certainly be in less favourable situations than others.
mr president, while i welcome the fact that europe has achieved its objective of acquiring, after many years, an important instrument such as patents, which will finally enable the european union to compete on an equal footing with other territorial entities, i express my deep regret at having to note that this has been achieved at the expense of other entities, such as italy, which have always advocated the strengthening of the union's role. the decision to issue the patent in only one of the three working languages of the patent office will create a disparity between italian companies and those of the countries which are part of the proposed language scheme. i remember that i put a question to the commission a few months ago to defend the use of the italian language. in the meantime, 25 out of 27 countries have complied, which is why i abstained.
mr president, when meucci's patent was not recognized by the american telephone industry a century ago, it was not because of the lack of english or the use of italian, but because of the lack of a requirement: he didn't have the money to register his patent for another annuity. in this sense, we are today faced with a paradoxical situation and, beyond the vote, i believe that the adoption of a patent with trilingualism, which excludes the italian language, is essentially a sign of the weakness of our government, of its inability to influence european policy and of the weakness of our policy, which is reflected above all in research and innovation. in this connection, it is enough to recall the study on competitiveness published last december, which reveals how italy has, in recent years, kindly given away 4 billion euros to other countries that have welcomed our researchers. the italian language is no longer needed by these researchers, because they have learned english, french and german and have all the tools to apply for these same patents, in defiance of italian products.
mr president, i would like to explain the reasons for my vote against today. the creation of the patent will certainly bring benefits to the patent system in europe but the result would have been vastly better if we had conducted the procedure differently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the current procedure is just a new stage in the long history of patent adoption in the european union, which dates back to 1990, and has been applied for by only 12 member states. i voted against this resolution because it is incompatible with the requirement of last resort laid down in article 20 (2) of the treaty. the commission proposal does not create a uniform title throughout the union as required by article 118, and enhanced cooperation has a negative impact on the establishment of companies and the free movement of capital. it would also have been much more politically elegant and at least appropriate to wait for the decisions of the court of justice scheduled for 8 march. we are probably going to have to reconsider our position as a result of this ruling.
mr president, once again we have seen the inability of the italian government to protect italy's pro-european profile, the interests of business on a crucial issue such as the adoption of the european patent. 25 out of 27 countries and the overwhelming majority of the parliament support a proposal which regulates the subject of patents and which affects the most innovative and most international-oriented companies. the italian self-exclusion from this decision will expose our companies to the risk of not being adequately protected in europe and in the world. it is astonishing that a government which does nothing to spread italian culture throughout the world, cutting funding to cultural institutions and failing to value the language of the country which holds the greatest cultural heritage of humanity, should be using the language issue in a chauvinistic way, when our companies have always demanded that patents be drawn up only in english, which is now the language of use in the global economy. however, one result has been achieved by allowing patent applicants to do so in their own language. mr president, nothing, however, obliged commissioner barnier to force a vote by asking for it in such haste before the opinion of the court of justice, which will be delivered, as we know, in the first week of march and which will deal mainly with two qualifying points, such as the use of the national language to defend oneself before the european union patent court, and the very legitimacy of the establishment of the patent court itself. these are essential questions, as we know, to be resolved before any decision is taken. hence the decision of the italian delegation of the democratic party to abstain.
mr president, i agree with many of the amendments proposed in this text, which, however, does nothing more than codify what has already been legislated on the subject of maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in foodstuffs and animal feedingstuffs. we are forgetting and passing over in silence for a while that these are nuclear accident-related scraps. this should keep us ever more alert to the dangers of nuclear power stations and to the fact that these are the consequences of the poisonous and sickly fruits of what some states are determined to carry on. it is therefore a measure which must be of the utmost importance to all of us. i think that more could be done, however, to the extent of establishing an obligation to report immediately, which would allow all the risk factors to be collected. furthermore, there should be no derogation from this obligation to notify government authorities in the event of an accident.
mr president, in the proposal for the codification of the three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990 which set the levels of radioactive contamination in case of emergency, the inclusion of the new recital makes it possible to justify ex post an existing article and to justify the right of the council to exercise its competence directly and to adopt a regulation to confirm in a timely manner the emergency measures proposed by the commission. i agree with the rapporteur, mr belet, that it cannot be dissociated from the article to which he refers. however, it is necessary to clarify, in the light of the new rules introduced by the treaty of lisbon, whether such justification provides adequate justification for the reservation of the exercise of implementing powers provided for in favour of the council and whether those implementing powers delegated to the council are properly defined and limited. the interest of citizens in the effective management of post-accident situations must be guaranteed. the simplification of the nuclear emergency procedure and a clear assignment of a supervisory role to the commission, while clarifying the regime of its acts, are appropriate measures to this end.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ec-south africa free trade agreement, signed in pretoria in october 1999, entered into force in 2004 with a clause requiring it to be revised within five years of its entry into force. today, seven years after the ratification of the agreement, the european parliament has been able to express its opinion on the negotiations led by the commission, on the basis of the council's directives. the text which has been put to our vote, and for which i have decided to vote in favour, concerns above all the development of south africa. the fundamental aim is the commitment of the two parties to the agreement to fight for the final eradication of poverty, making a serious contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. but this can only be achieved if south africa, for its part, is able to take concrete action, by envisaging a serious policy of disarmament, which is considered the real basis on which to base the development project of that country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text proposed by mrs joly on the agreement between the european union and the republic of south africa because, in the light of the new international situation which has emerged in recent years, there is a need to revise the agreements on trade, development and cooperation with south africa. on the economic side, the agreements bring benefits to the industries of both parties, for example, for italy south africa is an important trade partner (both for co-financing projects and for trade). the review of the agreements also aims to coordinate efforts to combat terrorism, including the entry into force of the international criminal court, and to open a dialogue on the basis of common values and interests on issues such as migration, energy, space, transport and security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i fully share its content, especially as regards the will to strengthen bilateral cooperation between the european union and the republic of south africa. although it is mainly an economic and trade agreement, the amended text supports the process of economic and social transition in south africa by promoting regional cooperation and boosting the country's economic integration into the world economy. i also consider it a priority, in the light of my institutional responsibilities, to strengthen the political dialogue with this country, particularly on issues of particular interest to the acp countries. in particular, i support the decision to allocate a large part of the 980 million euro made available by the eu for the period 2007-2013 to the creation of new jobs, and also to finance the construction in south africa of the infrastructure necessary for the provision of basic health and safety services. pursuing these goals through strong civil society involvement means stepping firmly on the path to achieving the millennium development goals, putting the eradication of hunger and all forms of poverty above all other goals.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs joly's text on the revision of the agreement between the european union and the republic of south africa which has been in force since 2004. the aim of this revision is to identify new possibilities for trade liberalization in specific areas and, at the same time, to bring the agreement into line with the changed international context: i think it is crucial to stress that this review lays the foundations for improving and deepening the eu-south africa dialogue on important issues such as migration, energy and security.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today parliament voted in favour of the agreement proposed by the commission concerning financial mechanisms for the period 2009-2014 between the european union and iceland, the principality of liechtenstein and norway, on the one hand, and an agreement between the european union and norway, on the other. the agreements provide for an increase in the eea financial mechanism in the areas of environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy, civil society, humanitarian and social development and protection of cultural heritage. in concrete terms, the overall package is set at eur 1.8 billion. the 12 new member states, plus spain, greece and portugal, will be eligible for these funds. i therefore voted in favour because i believe that economic cooperation is a resource to be relied upon and because we must never forget that the well-being of one european member state contributes to the improvement of the economy of the whole of europe and, with it, the quality of life of its 500 million citizens.
in writing. - i supported this recommendation because it represents an opportunity to strengthen the contribution of the efta-eea states to reducing economic and social disparities in the european economic area. the fishing concessions for iceland remain unchanged, while those for norway are slightly increased. the two agreements on financial mechanisms for the period 2009-2014 between the eu, iceland, liechtenstein and norway and the eu and norway provide for an overall package of eur 1.8 billion, with significant increases compared to the period 2004-2009. work will now need to be done to resolve the remaining differences between the eu, iceland and norway on issues relating to the management of marine life, particularly whaling.
in writing. - i have decided, together with my italian colleagues from the epp, to abstain on today's vote on relations between the european union and brazil on certain aspects of air services, because, in view of what was said in the resolution on the battisti case, i would have preferred that the vote be postponed pending the new decision of the federal court of brazil on the extradition of the criminal cesare battisti. given the non-urgent nature of the matter, it would not have been a problem to postpone it until the next partsession or the one in april, especially when we consider the pain of the families of the victims of the mass murder of battisti. the same families who have been waiting for 31 years for justice to be done and for battisti to serve the sentence imposed by italian justice in our prisons.
in writing. the vote on the report on the eu-federal republic of brazil air services agreement is a vote of abstention and goes beyond the merits. i do not agree with the brazilian government's attitude to the battisti affair. extradition, the procedures for which are defined in a bilateral agreement, should be granted. the interpretation given by the judicial authorities is in breach of the commitments made. the sentence, which battisti should serve in italy, was imposed by an ordinary judge, in application of ordinary laws, for a common crime: the multiple murder. it is difficult to maintain international relations, such as those contained in the reports voted by parliament, with a country which does not respect agreements and, above all, which expresses an opinion on the fundamental right to the protection of life.
in writing. - i abstained on the recommendation by mrs macovei, as well as on the other two reports, following the behaviour of the brazilian authorities in the cesare battisti case. the failure to extradite a terrorist, not recognized as such by brazil, cannot be disregarded. for this reason, like the rest of the italian delegation of the epp, i chose to abstain on the draft decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and brazil on work and tourist visas and on the report on the improvement of the agreements on air services between the eu and brazil. our action was clearly not an act of contradiction with the contents of the reports, but a political signal by which we wanted to reiterate our disappointment with the behaviour of the brazilian authorities in the battisti case.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in view of the european community's political and economic identity, but also and above all its geographical identity, i consider it necessary and of fundamental importance to vote in favour of this proposal, since countries such as iceland, norway and liechtenstein, as well as switzerland, are geographically situated in europe. i therefore believe that a single border management policy should be implemented to facilitate integration and cross-border movement. a european fund for border management would be a fair and significant measure to ensure uniform coordination of both resources and implementing policies. this would also facilitate and increase tourism and the free movement of goods and people.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 a protocol was signed on the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to the eu-ec-switzerland agreement, which imposes on the principality the obligation to implement, apply and develop the schengen acquis. although the principality of liechtenstein joined the european economic area in 1995 and gradually adapted to european standards by transposing many directives into its own national law, it had not yet started negotiations for accession to the schengen agreements. the agreement, which i supported, established the rights and obligations of both parties and thus allowed the free movement of persons. a number of rules have also been introduced to implement the provisions of the treaty of lisbon on international agreements, so as to give the european parliament a more prominent role in informing and approving them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it can contribute to the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis in countries such as iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein. it is important that these countries participate in the external borders fund for the period 2007-2013 in accordance with the provisions and agreements in force. for an ever more united europe, but one which does not lose sight of the concrete, their participation will be regulated by complementary provisions which will also guarantee the protection of the community's financial interests and the power of control of the court of auditors.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendation to the commission, which i have approved, concerns the criteria and mechanisms for determining the competent state for the examination of an asylum application lodged in one of the member states, in switzerland and, if the protocol is ratified, as the majority of the european parliament hopes, also in the principality of liechtenstein. the purpose of the dublin agreement is to provide the acceding countries with criteria for determining which state is competent to examine an asylum application, ensuring better treatment for applicants for asylum status and, at the same time, providing the countries with the tools to combat organised crime. the importance of such issues as refugee protection and international security requires a careful and sustained commitment by all the european institutions to ensure that all refugees or asylum seekers can rely on certain legal and regulatory criteria and references.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of the conclusion of the protocol for the accession of liechtenstein to the dublin agreement with switzerland. this agreement has already enabled switzerland to make use of important instruments to combat international crime and illegal immigration. not only that: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the aim is now to enable liechtenstein to reap the same benefits, bringing it further closer to the ultimate goal of full membership of the european union.
in writing. - i have decided, together with my italian colleagues from the epp, to abstain on today's vote on relations between the european union and brazil on the short-stay visa waiver for ordinary passport holders, because, in view of the resolution on the battisti case, i would have preferred the vote to be postponed pending the new decision of the federal court of brazil on the extradition of the criminal cesare battisti. given the non-urgent nature of the matter, it would not have been a problem to postpone it until the next partsession or the one in april, especially when we consider the pain of the families of the victims of the mass murder of battisti. the same families who have been waiting for 31 years for justice to be done and for battisti to serve the sentence imposed by italian justice in our prisons.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote on the macovei report, as i did on the ţicău and enciu reports, to express my disappointment at the attitude of the brazilian government towards the extradition of the terrorist battisti. the visa-free and air service agreements confirm the good relations between brazil and the european union. i asked the libe committee to hear the ambassador to the european union in order to discuss fundamental issues such as respect for human rights, the fight against terrorism, the profile of freedom and security in europe and in brazil. confident that concrete results can be achieved in the interests of the european citizen and the brazilian people.
in writing. the vote on the report on the eu-federal republic of brazil agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports expresses a position that goes beyond the merits. i do not agree with the brazilian government's attitude to the battisti affair. extradition, the procedures for which are defined in a bilateral agreement, should be granted. the interpretation given by the judicial authorities is in breach of the commitments made. the sentence, which battisti should serve in italy, was imposed by an ordinary judge, in application of ordinary laws, for a common crime: the multiple murder. it is difficult to maintain international relations, such as those contained in the reports voted by parliament, with a country which does not respect agreements and, above all, which expresses an opinion on the fundamental right to the protection of life.
in writing. - i have decided, together with my italian colleagues from the epp, to abstain on today's vote on relations between the european union and brazil on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic or service/official passports, because, in view of the resolution on the battisti case, i would have preferred that the vote be postponed pending the new decision of the federal court of brazil on the extradition of the criminal cesare battisti. given the non-urgent nature of the matter, it would not have been a problem to postpone it until the next partsession or the one in april, especially when we consider the pain of the families of the victims of the mass murder of battisti. the same families who have been waiting for 31 years for justice to be done and for battisti to serve the sentence imposed by italian justice in our prisons.
in writing. the vote on the report on the eu-federal republic of brazil agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic or service/official passports expresses a position that goes beyond the merits. i do not agree with the brazilian government's attitude to the battisti affair. extradition, the procedures for which are defined in a bilateral agreement, should be granted. the interpretation given by the judicial authorities is in breach of the commitments made. the sentence, which battisti should serve in italy, was imposed by an ordinary judge, in application of ordinary laws, for a common crime: the multiple murder. it is difficult to maintain international relations, such as those contained in the reports voted by parliament, with a country which does not respect agreements and, above all, which expresses an opinion on the fundamental right to the protection of life.
in writing. - while i agree with the content of this agreement, i have decided to abstain in protest at the political choices which the brazilian government has been making for some time now in relation to cesare battisti. in fact, this convicted murderer is not serving the sentences imposed on him by italian justice.
in writing. - mr president, the potential benefits of implementing the services directive are undeniable. the activities covered by the directive contribute 40% to gdp and jobs in the eu and if properly implemented we could unlock enormous economic potential, creating jobs and contributing to economic recovery. the quality of the implementation of the directive by the member states is as essential as the respect of the deadlines set for this purpose. the european parliament has already shown that it can play a crucial role in the negotiations leading up to the adoption of the directive, and i therefore believe that it must ensure effective monitoring of the implementation of the directive by the member states. european service providers must be able to offer their services anywhere in the european union without being hampered by bureaucratic barriers. however, during the implementation phase we must also pay attention to other aspects, in particular the administrative costs which are currently borne by the states. i agree with the rapporteur that the mutual evaluation procedure introduced by the council imposes unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on member states' administrations at national, regional and local level. i hope that the potential benefits of these procedures will be appreciated as soon as possible, otherwise the high bureaucratic costs will continue to exist.
in writing. − the european services directive came into force in december 2006 with the ambitious aim of opening up the market to service providers in the european union, removing protectionist barriers to the provision of services in the member states and implementing the principle of the free movement of goods and services in the union. the directive requires that european service providers be able to offer their services without any bureaucratic barriers within the european union. the commission's own-initiative report, which parliament is preparing to monitor closely the transposition of the directive into national law, assesses the work done so far by the member states. in particular, it is noted that, in the course of the transposition process, there are delays in the implementation of the directive and significant problems of interpretation relating to its scope. therefore, in order to protect market operators, i urge an urgent and unequivocal delimitation of the services covered by this directive. finally, i believe that the effective implementation of the internal market information system, the extension of functions and the increased computerisation of the single points of sale in the territory would undoubtedly represent a huge advantage for service providers and would make it easier for smes to access information.
in writing. − the aim of this directive, which entered into force in december 2006, is to open up the market to service providers in the european union by eliminating all protectionist barriers, arbitrary obstacles and any discriminatory rules. the european parliament has always insisted that this directive should not be used as a pretext for dangerous deregulation of the sector. i voted in favour of this report which has the merit of pointing out the often unjustified delays and disputes in the transposition of the services directive, which also contribute 40% to gdp and jobs in the eu. it also has the advantage of enabling european companies, especially smes, to provide citizens with better services at competitive prices. a correct and transparent application of the services directive would have the merit of unlocking the enormous economic and job creation potential of the internal market, estimated at between 0.6 and 1.5% of european gdp. and the european union is in dire need of it. the full application of the directive throughout the eu will therefore introduce elements of competition in the internal market which will bring benefits to citizens and businesses.
in writing. − the transposition process of the services directive is based on a delicate process which aims to create transparency and consistency in the member states' systems about the results of the implementation of the services directive and to verify the results in the internal market following transposition. this is the aim of the report, which i have supported, given the need to check the work of the member states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of products for human consumption, which is to be adopted by the end of the year, is designed to ensure that the rules on the marketing of products for human consumption are applied in a uniform manner throughout the community. i just want to remind you that our economy is 75% services and that in a global market these must be our strength. i think that in the future we should see more liberalization, which does not mean no rules, but only more competition.
in writing. the report on the implementation of the services directive was voted on in the house today. the aim of the directive is to open up the market to service providers in the european union, to remove protectionist barriers to the provision of services in the member states and to implement the principle of free movement, which is the basis of the single market: in short, european service providers must be able to offer their services anywhere in the european union without any bureaucratic barriers. mr gebhardt's own-initiative report provides an assessment of the implementation of the services directive, which expired on 28 december 2009 after a three-year period for the implementation of this very important directive, which entered into force on 28 december 2006. the report by the rapporteur shows that some member states have not yet adopted all the horizontal legislation required for the proper application of the directive, which is why there is still work to be done to try to make all the mechanisms provided for in the services directive operational.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the full implementation of a dynamic services market is one of the fundamental priorities of the european union. today, despite the significant progress made by the single market, services account for only one fifth of total trade within europe, and only 8% of european smes operate in other member states. the figures in the single market communication adopted by the commission last october are clear: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public sector. this can only be achieved by the development and implementation of common rules. in the current crisis, we need to harness the growth potential that exists by helping businesses to grow, innovate and create more jobs. only then will we be able to offer better and more competitive services to both consumers and businesses. the single market in services must be a tool for boosting economic growth, regaining consumer confidence and ensuring reliable products for all.
in writing. - i can only support mr chancian's report on the text in question, where the institutional debate is centred not only on the creation of a common basis for guaranteeing the protection of the rights of bus passengers, but also on the mobility needs of the handicapped and disabled. in this connection, bus companies are required to equip and train themselves to provide minimal assistance to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility, without prejudice to the burden on the passenger of informing the company in advance of his needs, not less than 36 hours before departure. the compromise seems to set common minimum standards which are very favourable to passengers, without imposing excessive burdens on carriers, most of which are small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur, mr cancian, on the excellent work he has done, which has enabled a satisfactory and well-balanced compromise to be reached. the report also guarantees the rights of passengers on buses and coaches, the only ones not specifically protected at european level. i therefore voted in favour of this document, which i also appreciate the attention it has paid to the motor vehicle companies active in this sector. the agreements reached have avoided placing an undue burden on the carriers, which are very often family-run and small. at the same time, i think it is important that the european union should put in place precise regulations, so that a charter of passenger rights can be drawn up soon, with particular attention to the needs of disabled people and people with reduced mobility.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a difficult diplomatic process between the council and parliament, it is only today that we can finally launch the report drawn up by mr cancian. my vote was in favour because this report will enable the eu to require individual member states to legislate on this subject in accordance with the guidelines provided in the report which focus on greater respect for bus passengers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of public transport services, including the introduction of a european public transport service. the report is a good compromise and what i would like to stress most is that the right attention has been paid to the rights of disabled people by calling for greater assistance from bus companies for all disabled people or those with reduced mobility. with the entry into force of this legislation, citizens will be entitled to clear and common rules on what is also covered by compensation for any damage or reimbursement in the event of delay in respect of scheduled times.
in writing. - the conciliation work carried out by mr cancian on the passenger rights regulation has led to the adoption of a european regulatory framework for the protection of bus and coach passengers which goes hand in hand with the creation of a single transport market. the legislative vacuum has so far left regulation to national legislation, to the detriment of competition, given the various disparities, and to the detriment of disabled and/or reduced-mobility citizens whose rights will now be guaranteed by the union. i voted in favour of the text because i consider it to be a great piece of work which, through a good compromise, takes european transport policies a good step forward, succeeding not only in guaranteeing the rights of passengers but also in not putting too much pressure on the transport companies that sell the service.
in writing. the report on passenger rights in bus and coach transport was voted on in the house today. in december 2008, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation on passenger rights in bus transport. the commission's proposal aims to introduce eu-wide rights to protect passengers comparable to those applied in other modes of transport and to ensure equal conditions of competition between carriers in the various member states and between the different modes of transport. the main points agreed at the conciliation committee were: scope; time-limited derogations; compensation and assistance in the event of an accident; passengers' rights in the event of cancellation or delay; and the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. the final text can be considered very satisfactory and well balanced, since it succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without at the same time imposing a heavy burden on carriers, most of which are small and mediumsized enterprises. in particular, the outcome of the conciliation procedure can be considered a success for parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which finally recognises and protects the rights of passengers in all modes of transport, thus putting users at the centre of transport policy. better protection of passenger rights helps to encourage the use of public transport and encourages healthier competition between operators, encouraging them to develop more competitive services. it is important to emphasise that the new regulation will be applied in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. two important new features are the provision for financial compensation in the event of accidents to persons and damage to or loss of luggage and the guarantee of assistance in the event of delays or interruptions to travel on model trains and aircraft. the final text recognises and protects travellers, with particular attention to passengers with reduced mobility and disabled persons, and ensures appropriate information and services. it is also important to stress that there will be no new costs for the companies in the sector, which have been shielded from the risk of unsustainable adaptation costs, thus ensuring a fair balance between passenger rights and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - finally, this regulation lays down the rights of passengers in bus transport. although the commission proposed such a regulation in 2008, it is only now that a good compromise has been found, so that the only mode of transport that did not yet have rules to protect passengers has them. particular attention has been paid to disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. the only criticism of the measure concerned the scope of the rules, which applied only to routes longer than 250 km. assistance in the event of delays will include the provision of meals, drinks and alternative transport. if a service is suspended, not only must the traveller be reimbursed but, if necessary, an overnight service must also be provided for a maximum of two nights. the maximum amount of compensation for loss of or damage to baggage shall be eur 1200.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr antonio cancian's report because it will finally lay down the basic principles for guaranteeing the rights of the 70 million european citizens who travel by bus or coach in europe every year and who have been waiting for a long time to see their rights regulated. whatever the means of transport chosen, european citizens will be protected and protected by the european commission's commitment to review the existing regulations and to harmonize them into a single legislation, which provides for common standards for each type of journey and specific features depending on the means of transport chosen.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from light commercial vehicles is part of the commission's strategic framework for reducing co2 emissions into the environment. however, in the latest report of the european environment agency, some graphs clearly show that since 2003 co2 emissions from road transport in the eu15 and eu27 have been stable/decreasing. it should also be noted that light commercial vehicles in the transport sector account for only about 1.5% of carbon dioxide emissions. the long and difficult negotiations in the envi committee focused mainly on the long-term emissions level, which, when the agreement was reached, was 147g co2/km. this level, which is better than the initial conditions, does not fully meet my expectations. in fact, to protect the industry in this sector, italy had asked not to go below 160g co2/km and, in the council, many countries seemed to converge towards a minimum threshold of 155g co2/km. in conclusion, i believe that the result achieved by the commission-council-parliament trilogue in terms of long-term co2 emission reduction targets is still disproportionate to the specificities of the automotive sector and i express my concern about the risk of penalising industry and employment in the sector.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done so far. i appreciate the spirit of this document, which aims to contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions, as decided by the european union, also through improved operation of light commercial vehicles. however, it is known that these means of transport are used almost exclusively for commercial purposes and therefore, compared to cars, they have less potential to be modified in shape and weight. i would like to say that the best way - as the rapporteur himself has pointed out - is to change engines and mechanics, but i appreciate the agreement reached on the timing of these changes. in fact, i think it is reasonable to have set an initial short-term target of 175g co2/km from 2014 and by 2017. while further reducing emissions to 147g co2/km can logically be achieved by 2020.
in writing. − within the european strategy to combat pollution and climate change, co2 emissions reduction targets for vehicles are an important aspect. the light commercial vehicles pollute only a small part of the whole transport category, but in each specific sector limits must be defined to achieve the objectives set, which is why i voted in favour of the report. the community's objective is to reduce co2 emissions by up to 120 gco2/km, so to progressively reduce the average emissions i agree with the implementation of the regulation which requires, from january 2014, the registration and production of new light commercial vehicles that do not exceed 175 gco2/km of emissions and 147 gco2/km in the long term (2020) also to meet the design needs of the vehicles.
in writing. - i congratulate mr callanan on his excellent work. we have today approved the agreement reached with national governments on new co2 emission limits for european commercial vehicles, including incentives for industry to produce trucks with improved energy efficiency and penalties for those who do not comply with the new rules. the legislation adopted strikes a delicate balance and sets a series of ambitious but feasible environmental objectives for producers. the new legislation will complete the community regulatory framework by adding to the passenger vehicle emission standards of two years ago. manufacturing a van with a lower emission of 50g co2/km will give the manufacturer a 'super credit', valid for a limited period of time. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of vehicles that were sold in the period 2014-2015 to the creditors of the company. on the other hand, newly produced vehicles consuming more than the limits imposed will be subject to a penalty of up to eur 95/gram from 2019.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is useful in pursuing the objective of protecting the environment. this is an important document that helps the car industry to plan its production better, ensuring co2 emissions reductions. this decision will stimulate innovation and research, and will not only help consumers save money, but also and above all help small and mediumsized enterprises. at the end of the long negotiations between parliament and the council, an important result was reached, the result of a balanced mediation between the different positions of the 27 member states. the adoption of the new targets and standards will certainly produce tangible results, better protecting the health of all european citizens. the fight against climate change cannot be postponed and also involves reducing vehicle emissions.
in writing. - i have already repeatedly expressed my disappointment in recent months with the trilingual patent language regime. but i think it is even more politically serious than ever to use the community institution of enhanced cooperation to circumvent the veto of italy and spain and thus avoid continuing the debate in order to find a common solution which is also less burdensome. the proposal for a decision is also incompatible with the requirement of last resort laid down in article 20 (2) teu, which provides that enhanced cooperation may be authorised if, after considering all other scenarios, it is not possible to achieve the objectives within a reasonable period. moreover, more than a year after the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the value of equal dignity of european languages is already being disregarded, hampering the competitiveness and innovation of millions of european smes and also the rights of european citizens. such a patent system is detrimental to the internal market by geographically segmenting it, hindering trade between member states and adversely affecting the establishment of undertakings and the free movement of capital. in reiterating my opposing view, i think it would have been appropriate to wait for the ruling of the court of justice of the european union on 8 march before discussing this matter in this house.
in writing. - while i appreciate the spirit of this reform, which aims to provide europe with a single patent and thus reduce the cost of translations, i voted against it. the proposal for a decision submitted by the european council authorizes an enhanced cooperation procedure in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, and this is because some member states, including my own country, have spoken out against the adoption of the proposed translation system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the language system is not discriminatory. in my view, the enhanced cooperation system would also damage the single market by creating divisions and distortions of competition within it. it would therefore have been desirable to wait for the decision of the court of justice, which is expected in the next few days, an opinion which will be able to clarify first of all several technical aspects relating to the unitary patent system.
in writing. − the internal market and competition policy are two pillars of the european unification process, aimed not only at economically strengthening the eu and businesses, but above all at reversing the union's fundamental freedoms. this objective must be pursued for the benefit of all community citizens and businesses, both by offering them equal opportunities and substantial equality and by avoiding difficulties, over-cost and over-structuring which might differentiate, discriminate or reduce their possibilities of access or protection of their rights. recognising that all eu citizens have the right to express themselves in their own language when addressing the eu institutions is a fundamental right of equality, equal opportunities and non-discrimination. the use of some official languages has a technical rationale only within the activities of the eu institutions and not in relations with citizens, businesses and institutions of the member countries. enhanced cooperation is useful when it increases the opportunities of those who join it, without prejudice to others. i therefore voted against the recommendation because i consider that enhanced cooperation in such a sensitive area as political equality of languages is unacceptable, creating discrimination against the right to equal opportunities and access to the fundamental freedoms of the eu.
in writing. - i am opposed to parliament's free hand in using the enhanced cooperation procedure to create a unitary patent system because i consider the issue of the language regime to be of fundamental importance to italian interests, italy being the fourth largest country in europe in terms of the number of patents filed. i believe that the enhanced cooperation procedure, which was created to give a greater impetus to the process of european union integration by giving a limited number of member states the opportunity to make progress on matters on which it is not possible to reach unanimous agreement, has been used as a tool. this may set a dangerous precedent, because it is detrimental to a member state and circumvents the unanimity provided for in the treaty of lisbon on the single market and the principle of non-distortion of competition within it. we would also have preferred to wait for the court of justice's judgment, which is due on 8 march.
in writing. - i voted against the introduction of trilingualism in patent legislation. the translation of patents into english, french and german only would be a serious disadvantage for italian companies which would have to bear very high costs for the technical translation of the text of the patents filed. the indications of my group were to vote in favour, but i do not feel that i am approving legislation which i recognise as being detrimental to the interests of my country and its citizens, in particular all italian small and mediumsized enterprises and our consumers. it is clear that an increase in costs for firms would then have the effect of increasing product costs to the detriment of consumers. enhanced cooperation should remain an exceptional mechanism and should not be used to exclude member states willing to negotiate, such as italy and spain. i support the italian proposal to use the language of the country of the inventor with an english translation for patents. in this way we preserve our linguistic independence and the interests of our country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that after a long legislative process which began in 2000, it is unacceptable today not to have proposed a common solution on the linguistic aspect of european patents. for years italy and spain have been fighting for english to be recognized as the only official language of the technical and scientific world. this monolingual solution would cut costs, encouraging in particular small and medium-sized enterprises to use the european patent, whose economies often do not allow them to bear high translation costs. in order to overcome the unanimity required by such a sensitive matter, it was argued that enhanced cooperation, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon, should be used, since it would allow decisions to be taken by only one third of the member states. for months the italian and spanish governments have been stressing the exceptional nature of this procedure, which, if approved by the european parliament and the council by a qualified majority, would make the subject-matter of the european patent applicable not only in the states participating in enhanced cooperation but also to undertakings belonging to other member states.
in writing. - italy and europe are not doing well in the choice of enhanced cooperation in the creation of unitary patent protection. the implementation of enhanced cooperation in this area is deeply wrong because it renders futile the efforts to establish a community patent valid for all eu countries. we also contest the decision to force this vote in the house without taking account of the consequences of the court of justice's ruling on the compatibility of the unified patent court with the treaty. italy, like spain, rightly opposed the recognition of only three languages (english, french and german) for the filing of european patents, instead of respecting the principle of equal dignity of languages enshrined in the treaty. it is clear that this is not only discrimination but also a real economic damage to companies from countries with different languages.
in writing. i voted in favour of the following resolution because it simplifies the procedure for intervention in an emergency and strengthens the role of the commission by stating that it, and not the council, is competent to take decisions directly in the event of a nuclear accident, by laying down provisions with immediate effect. it is envisaged that the commission will be assisted by a group of independent experts with competence in the field of health and food safety. in addition, available scientific data must be made available to the commission to assess their feasibility, and member states are required to carry out activities to reduce contamination risks, including public communication. in essence, it is a report which protects the citizens and gives the commission and parliament a prominent role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights a fundamental problem which must not be underestimated at any time. more and more countries are turning to the atom, both for civilian and, unfortunately, military purposes. this is now a global reality, unfortunately also affecting areas of very high political instability. in the event of a crisis or accident, the european union cannot afford to be unprepared in its emergency management. the response must be immediate, effective and perfectly coordinated between the various member states. the fallout from such an event leads to contamination of food and animal feed, which, if introduced into the food chain, can cause incalculable damage, contaminating whole areas for decades. the citizens of europe must be able to sleep soundly at night, knowing that in the event of an emergency that we all hope we will never have to face, they will not be left to the mercy of events. lean procedures with clear roles and responsibilities for all: this is the basis for serving the real interests of the citizens.
in writing. the report on the proposal for a regulation setting maximum permitted levels of radioactivity for foodstuffs is welcomed as it streamlines emergency procedures and strengthens the role of the commission by giving it powers to decide in the event of a nuclear accident. maximum levels of radioactivity in foodstuffs for both human and animal consumption are also indicated. the vote also approved, with our vote in favour, an oral amendment providing for compensation to be paid to farmers who are harmed by the fact that they cannot sell their products if they are contaminated.
the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment for the future of the european union. after many culpable delays, it has become clear to everyone that europe needs real economic governance, which must be particularly stringent for the countries that have adopted the euro. we therefore welcome the establishment of a permanent stability mechanism, which we consider to be an important element in the construction of a genuine economic governance of europe, even if we continue to have legal and political reservations about the procedure chosen, which we consider to be risky and which does not make full use of the instruments offered by the treaty. i am glad to hear that you share these reservations. but the point that we care most about now is another: how will the new mechanism work in practice? will it help to strengthen the economic governance of the european union or will it be a step in the direction of a new, inevitably discretionary 'intergovernmentalism', a direction in which the unfortunate formulation of the franco-german competitiveness pact has also been placed? i mean, what tracks are we putting the train on? who's the foreman? on the one hand, the proposed amendment to article 136 outlines an intergovernmental mechanism which is entirely independent of the union and its institutions. on the other hand, we read in the commission's opinion that the mechanism will necessarily have to be based on the economic governance of the union and that the commission will take all the initiatives to ensure consistency between the stability mechanism and this economic governance. we appreciate the intentions but, as there is no trace of this in the proposed reform of rule 136, we feel that this is the time to clearly define how the mechanism will operate. what procedure will be adopted to establish the mechanism? what role will the commission play in its management and in the definition of cross-compliance? what will be the composition of the secretariat? what is the european council's view of what president barroso has just said about the validity of the current extraordinary solidarity mechanisms? will there be a role for the european parliament? only a rewording of the amendment to article 136 or - alternatively - a clear statement by the european council on these points will, i believe, enable the european parliament to adopt its opinion in accordance with the timetable desired by the european council. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i urge respect for the european union and its powers as laid down in the treaties, which i believe is also the best way of fulfilling our role as direct representatives of the citizens of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gradual abolition of visas on the one hand and the increase in migratory flows on the other demand that the asylum package finally find a preferential route within the council. this initiative, if supported by the commission, would have the merit of regulating a complex matter and of defining a unified strategy which would impose the judgment we are dealing with today and would offer the opportunity to avoid transfers such as those we have discussed today. we are of course in favour of protecting fundamental rights, but we also want to combine this with a rigorous assessment of the requirements. the commissioner, given that the situation has become untenable, it is now necessary to look for positive discipline and a clear regulatory framework. this is an important step which i am convinced will be able to be put to the council's evaluation in a reasonably short time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the values on which the european union is founded - human rights and fundamental rights - cannot be called into question. a ruling by the european court of justice calls for urgent reflection and rapid and effective action. the judgment requires the development, definition and implementation of a unified strategy and a common commitment. asylum procedures must be avoided immediately and in the best possible way. but those border countries which are faced with an emergency of an exodus which is not directed at them but - through them - at the whole of europe cannot be left alone by europe itself. border countries cannot take full responsibility for the burden and organisation of the processing of asylum applications, which often requires long time and long and careful evaluation. such timely and careful assessments must not affect the dignity of migrants, which must always and in any case be guaranteed.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, dear cecilia, ladies and gentlemen, i begin my speech by referring to a statement that the italian foreign minister was said to have made yesterday in damascus, in which he said that syria - listen, listen - is 'a solid country in which the people's desire for modernisation is being fulfilled', whereas a few days ago our minister of the interior made another statement in which he discharged his responsibilities to europe, which was to leave italy alone, adding - with a touch of perfidy - 'as usual'. as usual, however, there is a habit of invoking europe when it is convenient, to ignore it with annoyance when brussels disapproves of the agreement on returns at sea, which violates humanitarian law and enriches those african dictatorships - some of which are now going down - while still continuing to give billions to gaddafi's libya or giving up the aid of 10 million euros offered to the italian government in 2009 from the reserve of the european refugee fund, funds that italy has decided not to use, because perhaps they should have been spent following the most transparent procedures in europe and not the criteria of civil protection itself. i think that this is not the way to go. you really don 't understand the lesson of these weeks: lampedusa reminds us that history is stronger than certain political games and the pursuit of declarations that create illusions, that money cannot buy everything, that europe is not claimed in vain, but is a project in which every day must be committed by claiming rights and solidarity but also by respecting the commitments made. to halt the disembarkation of fish in a sustainable and non-contingent way, five things are needed: democracy, development, respect for international law, european solidarity - but above all - zero demagoguery.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these emergencies require an immediate political response. the urgent measures requested by italy are: 1) the transformation of frontex from a coordinating agency into an operational structure with its own staff and resources; (2) the implementation of the principle of burden sharing; (3) the use of europol for investigations into possible terrorist infiltration and the criminal management of human trafficking; (4) the allocation of resources to meet the emergency. however, all this will not solve the structural causes of the maghreb revolutions, which are rooted in the absence of real political parties, trade unions, associations, a free press and, above all, respect for human rights. the institutional instruments which characterize a true democracy and give voice to the people are essentially lacking. without this there will be no economic development, no employment, no stability and security for all. this is the real political challenge facing europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for her great commitment, which she will continue to make in dealing with this humanitarian emergency. but you know as well as i do that the real emergency is not the humanitarian one - of which it is only one effect - but the fact that, in the epochal upheaval which is affecting the whole maghreb area, europe appears inadequate, that is, incapable of re-establishing a strategy for the mediterranean which it has tried several times and in which it has always failed. the lisbon process has failed and the union for the mediterranean has failed miserably. we don't have a proper view of the real issues on the carpet: we have to face them together while the council is absent today. we asked the council to consider the question of having a european strategy to deal not so much with the problem of immigration and illegal immigration as with the problem of democracy and freedom throughout the mediterranean area. when the soviet bloc collapsed, we all gave concrete answers together, facing up to the problem of the thousands of poles in our squares, because we faced the problem of the european integration of the whole of the east. we are silent today about the mediterranean. we must have a strategy, without which we will not be able to give answers. we'll appreciate your goodwill and stop there. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
thank you for asking. i remember that only a few days ago, when i was on a mission to tunisia with mr panzeri, the chairman of the delegation for the maghreb, we also noted that the provisional government is making profound changes to the judicial system and the laws governing all this. i believe that it is precisely from the relationship of trust between europe and the new horizon that is emerging in tunisia that the first steps can be taken to solve the problems you raised.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to be discussing with the commission the emergency of migration from north africa. we have seen these people arrive in lampedusa without finding any facility to receive and identify them. the italian government has long since, under the slogan "immigration zero", dismantled the existing reception centre and reduced the facilities, removing italy's ability to deal with illegal immigration. we know that the problem concerns italy, but it also concerns europe. a considerable financial effort is needed to resolve this in a framework of coordinated policies, in compliance with international treaties and refugee protection. in reply, commissioner, following some controversy which you are well aware of, i would like to know exactly when the italian government requested the european commission to intervene.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 5,000 immigrants have arrived in italy in the last few hours, while another 100,000 are leaving for italy, france and germany. the tunisian minister of justice confirms that some 11,000 prisoners, terrorists and criminals, are hiding among the illegals. i put an urgent question to the commission in time to get an answer from baroness ashton - who is today inexplicably absent - and the commission only agreed to report today and only because it was pressed by this parliament yesterday. this deafening silence is the most obvious symbol of the inconsistency of this europe and its government, which is afraid even to expose itself to a humanitarian emergency which poses serious humanitarian and security problems. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this is the time allowed to the democratic institution to discuss a historic upheaval and its consequences for the citizens of europe. what do i tell my voters who are afraid? what will the european union do tomorrow tomorrow! to deal with this very serious situation?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an island in the middle of the mediterranean, far and wide, called lampedusa. already in 2008, this island came to the fore because 40,000 refugees arrived there that year. the problem was later resolved by an agreement, the so-called "friendship treaty", subsequently signed by the italian and libyan governments. we are now back to the subject, but this time, mrs malmström, it is much more complicated. the impulses for peace, stability, a new government in tunisia, as in egypt, are creating a troubling wind that is stirring the mediterranean. i am sicilian and, unlike many of my colleagues who spoke, i was in the then existing identification and expulsion centre. that centre served at that time but, after the agreement on the friendship treaty, it ceased to have any validity. what can the commission do and what can frontex do? we naturally want the emergency response mission to be deployed in concrete form. we want frontex - and mr busuttil is reviewing its mandate with us in the libe committee - to be an agile, lean, concrete structure with financial resources. mr mauro also called on the council to act immediately by putting this issue, which is a top priority, on the agenda without further delay, as immigrants are now also arriving from egypt. the real risk is that the dignity and decency of many refugees will be compromised by unavoidable delays, although we are confident that commissioner malmström will once again be appreciated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current wave of migration is a serious problem and a european problem. however, we need not complaints but effective cooperation to deal with the present emergency in a constructive and farsighted spirit. we must act on two levels, with a sense of responsibility and broad shoulders. the first is immediate. additional financial resources must be made available to deal with the emergency; finally, to set up a european table that puts on the agenda the possibility of a solidarity-based redistribution of immigrants in the different countries and, finally, to make it necessary - through a confrontation with the tunisian interim government - to provide the means and instruments capable of stopping the exodus in progress. the second plan is more strictly political in nature. a radical overhaul of neighbourhood policies is absolutely necessary. action is needed based on a renewed policy of economic, financial and social cooperation, a smart immigration policy and effective support for economic reforms and the democratic transition process under way in tunisia. only by doing so will we be able to face and solve the problems facing italy and europe. i think you will agree with all of us, commissioner, that it is really time to move from words to deeds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time europe has been the sleeping beauty of immigration, accumulating delays for which we are now paying the price. the truth is that immigration is not yet a de facto priority for the european union, nor for all 27 member states, but is often a burden only for border countries. the development of an appropriate euro-mediterranean strategy should also be a common objective, but even here we must admit that the barcelona process has never really taken off. the commissioner, the truth is that these are uncomfortable subjects. some member states, such as italy, greece, malta, etc., are rightly obliged to take care of this and have an obligation of solidarity, while the majority of member states remain by the window, are passive spectators who merely give lessons. there is therefore a lot to be done on the legislative side, in terms of funding, of strengthening the instruments - i am referring to frontex - but above all it takes political will. mr president, in conclusion i thank commissioner malmström and the whole commission for this very reason: the european union is also grateful to the italian government for its commitment, which was reaffirmed today, to tackling the humanitarian emergency in lampedusa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the commissioner for his immediate readiness and foresight in offering aid to italy, aid which the italian government itself refused at the outset. commissioner, you have also rightly stressed the need to support tunisia in this period of democratic transition. however, i ask myself, and i ask all of you: what happened to the money that europe has given to tunisia over the years and continues to give to libya, which, as we know, are democratic regimes? so now it's beautiful and extraordinary to applaud this awakening by the tunisian citizens, while wondering why all this money was granted. if the libyan people wake up tomorrow, what would be the conclusion? would we have recognized for the umpteenth time that we had fostered democratic regimes and then realised the next day that we had implemented a failed policy? i wonder, commissioner, why europe has been silent about this democratic awakening, while only america has been able to give a strong lead in this regard. i would like to return to what mr portas and mr tavares said, who made it quite clear that in countries like tunisia immigration is seen as a crime. in the meantime, as regards all the citizens who have landed on lampedusa - who, as i remind mr madlener, are not libyans but tunisians, although it does not matter because the libyans will soon be arriving too - who will determine whether they are refugees or not, given that there is currently a state of extraordinary confusion in tunisia? but more importantly, what spirit will we have in returning these people knowing that, once they arrive, they will be immediately incarcerated? i think that these are the points on which we must reflect, especially when we realize that racist policies implemented by governments such as the italian one have unfortunately produced only very negative results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we thank the commissioner for his efforts, although it must be said that the european union, with all the salaries it pays around the world - 136 diplomatic missions - could perhaps have seen this coming before it did. the fact is that even the socialist international, to which the sympathetic dictator of tunisia belonged and whose brilliant social and political management of that country has produced this, did not notice this. we want to know from the commission why it does not tell you clearly how these people are distributed among the various european countries. it is not right, as the coastal states have long maintained, that this problem should be confined to the countries which have maritime borders with the countries of north africa and the mediterranean. and this is a fundamental point, as it is also fundamental to remember the narrowness of frontex's structures: i heard that two experts were sent. there is a humanitarian tragedy of enormous importance in lampedusa which must be dealt with by a proper task force, by correcting the mistakes and shortcomings of the recent past. this is a very serious situation which may also be aggravated from a hygienic and sanitary point of view, since water may already be running out in lampedusa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the commissioner for his attention to the question of tunisia. i would have liked to call this debate something else, to be honest, a 'debate in support of tunisia and other countries fighting against dictatorships and for human rights'. instead, we are making a humanitarian emergency of the fact that one of the world's great powers, italy, is faced with the problem of taking in 5,000 people. it is obvious that they are a problem for lampedusa, even though there is a daily ferry that connects the island to sicily and there is also an airport to transport these people from. we must be aware that what is at stake at the moment is not the question of frontex or how to block landings, but that we are dealing with peoples whom we have urged to fight for democracy and who, now that they are doing so, we must be able to welcome. the extension of the visa system is one of the policies that italy can pursue in order to try to help these countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my sincere gratitude to the commissioner for this debate, for what he has said, for honouring us with his presence and for the commitments he has made, which demonstrate how much a concerted approach between europe and italy can help my country to cope with this emergency. i want to quote you: "there is a new wind blowing on the shores of the mediterranean". it is true, mr president, that it is a wind of freedom and democracy with immediate effects that italy is now faced with. when the wind blows stronger, some people build walls and others build windmills. you should know, commissioner, that southern italy, puglia, from which i and my colleagues baldassarre and mario come, has been building mills for decades, that is, building forms of reception and is committed to guaranteeing dignity and a fair and dignified reception of migrants. but we can't do it alone. it would be nice, commissioner, if these mills which we have been building for years also bore the hallmark of a europe which is attentive and effective, a europe which is building them together with us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the extraordinary flow of immigrants that is sweeping the italian coasts, and with them the whole of europe, must push us to accelerate towards a finally common approach to dealing with this phenomenon. in this sense, the dialogue between the italian authorities and the commission is proceeding positively with the aim of responding to the humanitarian emergency we have discussed. i must say this with the goodwill of mr crocetta: the problem is not so much the 5,000 who have arrived so far, but the potentially epochal scale of these displacements and the many thousands of refugees who could arrive on our shores if we send clear political messages and we must commit ourselves to this in terms of absolute urgency. the emergency must be overcome, but then a structural response must be given. we need to strengthen the role of frontex to make it more operational and to enable it to manage directly some of the processes of identification and verification of the status of refugees and returnees. we must strengthen europol's role, precisely to prevent potential terrorists and criminals from infiltrating. we must above all respond quickly. i think the commission has reacted well and i hope that the council will do its part.
member of the commission. − madam president, if mr busuttil had listened to what i said in my introduction, he would have heard that i said almost everything that was in his speech, but i am happy to repeat it. we are ready to use the funds that we have at our disposal to assist the italian authorities immediately. we are in dialogue with them to identify what kind of help they need. italy has a lot of experience in dealing with different kinds of disasters but they perhaps need help with humanitarian aid for shelter, food and medicines, and they might also need help with screening, assistance and identification. we will put that help at their disposal and we are talking to them about this at the moment. this is a european responsibility and that is why we have to come up with european solutions. we have frontex staff in place but we are also examining the possibility – and we are ready – of setting up a frontex operation within a very short time, but of course we need to discuss the modalities with italy and also with the other countries that might possibly contribute. i am happy that mr busuttil is the rapporteur for frontex so that in the future we will have an even better functioning frontex with amendments. if we had a frontex operation in tunisian waters we would, of course, need to do this in cooperation with the tunisian authorities. we are not there yet. we are also encouraging the tunisian authorities to take back their nationals who are not in need of international protection. we are looking at the law in this respect, as raised by mr tavares and others. we hope that the new democratic government will not have such a law, but of course it has to be examined on a case by case basis and to be looked at carefully. we are also willing to support the tunisian authorities with advice, support for border and police management, and also with training, equipment and funds. easo is still not operational in malta, but there is a board functioning and they have said that they can send national teams to italy to help should they wish. we will also discuss it this next week at the foreign affairs council and at the jha council that will meet next week. we are working with unhcr in order to ask them to help in the identification of those in need of international protection and to help us to make analysis for the future. frontex is also involved in dong analysis for the whole region. in tunisia, there is of course – as most of you have said – a very hopeful situation and we all support the democratic development there. lady ashton was there yesterday for discussions with the authorities. we are ready to offer election support to them in carrying out elections. we are discussing different ways to strengthen other kinds of support and to develop and strengthen their democratic development. economic assistance can be provided. we are discussing different mobility programmes and we also need to increase the possibilities for people to come legally to europe. there is also discussion about a donor conference. i agree with mr mauro and others who said that of course we need to look at the whole region. i think many were quite surprised when the berlin wall fell. we did not have an action plan immediately up our sleeve. this situation is a little different but of course people asking for freedom and democracy is something that we in the european union should support. we are reviewing the neighbourhood policy plan because events have made it necessary and we are looking at the whole region – in particular egypt, but also the other countries – in order to maximise the different tools, funds and policies that we have at our disposal and to tailor them much more adequately to the recent developments in the region. i am sure we will come back to this debate because the issue is on the agenda and is likely to stay there, but i want to assure you once again that the commission is following this very closely. we are ready to assist italy, tunisia and other countries affected by this.
in writing. the italian government's appeal to the eu is part of the prerogatives of membership. as many colleagues have said, the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility enshrined in the treaty must be applied in practice. the dramatic situation facing italy, as commissioner malmström has pointed out, is a matter for the european union. the slowness with which the european institutions have moved is not behind the rapid pace of events in the north african countries. italy, particularly the southern part, is europe's first frontier to the mediterranean and faces imaginable but unpredictable arrivals. what we are experiencing shows how serious it is to have abandoned the barcelona process. the european union must rethink its strategy for the mediterranean and put this issue back on its agenda. the short-term response, with financial aid and extraordinary measures, is positive but not decisive. the democratization processes under way in the countries on the other side of the mediterranean need to be accompanied by medium- and long-term initiatives addressing socioeconomic issues.
in writing. mr president, the debate we are facing today is of particular importance: in fact, in the last four days alone, the island of lampedusa has recorded more than 4,000 arrivals of refugees from neighboring tunisia. this is a health and hygiene emergency unlike any other. it should also be noted that the local municipal administration is facing this emergency without the appropriate resources and facilities that the case requires. italy immediately approached the european union to ask for its immediate intervention. however, in supporting this call for help, i would stress that the work of frontex, the european agency responsible for dealing with landings in the mediterranean, is valuable but not sufficient to deal with the landings of illegal immigrants from tunisia. i have already expressed my concern at the february mini-strike about the deterioration of the situation in the countries of north africa and the consequent repercussions in europe. i would like to stress once again, also here, that the european union must make a greater effort to have an effective common immigration policy, one which makes it possible to deal with illegal immigration and, above all, which comes to the aid of countries, such as italy, which are more directly exposed to the flow of immigrants.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to thank my colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten. the absence of significant attention to the gender dimension in the european commission's green paper on the future of pension systems in europe is a cause for concern: women are discriminated against in the calculation of pensions because they more often interrupt their working careers to provide care for children, sick family members and the elderly. women are therefore more likely than men to have to accept precarious or parttime work to meet family obligations, resulting in a gender pay gap of 18 per cent on average in the european union. this results in clear discrimination against women who receive a pension that is significantly lower than that of men, exacerbating the risk of poverty of older women, especially considering their higher life expectancy than men. the time spent by women caring for children or other dependants should be recognised in the calculation systems and thus treated as all other types of contract when calculating the pension. the green paper has offered a consultation... in conclusion, i hope that the new white paper will give greater attention to the delicate and worrying issue of the gender gap in the calculation of pension rights in the european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, by reaching the frightening figure of 23 million unemployed, europe in 2011 breaks every negative record of the decade in terms of employment policies, officially declaring them a failure. the emergency situation is more than enough reason to accept a text in which the call for the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the field of pensions demonstrates a newfound reasonableness on the part of the eurocrats in the revision of a european social model which has certainly failed. governments thus become, after a decade of delegitimization, the protagonists of the reconstruction of social europe. but that 's not enough . the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european company law, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union. lowering the cost of labour by reducing taxes, giving our small businesses the possibility of continuing to work and investing in the territory are essential steps to ensure equal pay for the older generations and a future of certainty and quality of life for the new ones.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to address parliament on this important issue of falsified medicines. the proposal before us today for an amending directive on falsified medicines will, subject to parliament’s approval, take us into new territory. a successful conclusion of this file will mark the first time that the european union has tackled, with legislation, the specific threat of falsified pharmaceuticals. this text is going to make our regulatory system fit for the future; making a major contribution to protecting patients from the many dangers of fake medicines. as members will know, falsified medicines are different from counterfeit products. falsified medicines are about public health. i was very pleased that an early agreement on the substance of the proposal was reached between the co-legislators just before christmas. let me thank all those who worked so hard to make this agreement possible, especially the rapporteur of the lead committee, ms matias, as well as the rapporteurs of the committees giving opinions, ms sartori and ms bastos. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs. the commission stands fully behind the substance of this well-balanced agreement, which introduces rigid and effective measures whilst being risk proportionate and flexible. this is crucial as not all medicines are the same: the likeliness of falsification varies, as does the risk of public health. turning to some of the specific issues, i would like to highlight the following. on safety features: we saw the risk that member states might in future take divergent approaches on the packaging. this would have led to different levels of protection in the european union. it would have led to a fragmentation of the european union market for medicines. i am sure members will share my satisfaction that we have paved the way towards a european safety feature to identify and thus authenticate a medicine. the commission has always supported a european approach in this regard. on active pharmaceutical ingredients: the agreed text strengthens inspections and international cooperation in this field. the commission and the network of european agencies will work more closely with international partners. only through such cooperation can we achieve a truly effective system of inspection and enforcement. the legislation, once adopted, will increase the transparency of actors involved in the distribution of medicines. finally, parliament insisted on rules concerning online sales of medicines. i consider that parliament found a strong, pragmatic solution by focusing on issues of transparency. the argument acknowledges that the rules for pharmacies in the eu vary but, in future, it will be easier for patients throughout the eu to distinguish legal operators from illegal online pharmacies. president, members, i trust i can count on your full support as regards the next step in the legislative process towards finalising this worthy and much needed initiative.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, on her excellent work. the dangers of counterfeiting medicines are due to the very strong socio-health impact as well as the economic impact. the compromise text, although it is a clear improvement on the 2001 directive, does not address some of the key issues i would like to mention. producers of active ingredients located in third countries should be subject to inspections by the state of destination of those ingredients while they will be mediated by the competent authorities of the same third country. the traceability of medicinal products should be clear as regards the manufacturer and country of origin of the various active ingredients where this definition is not introduced in the new formulation. the question of selling via the internet remains open. i would like to stress that the report is generally positive and improving and i support mrs grossetête's call for compromise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the amendments proposed by the commission to the directive on medicinal products for human use are aimed at preventing the entry of falsified medicinal products, we would have expected more concrete results, especially through the introduction of compulsory inspections at the manufacturing sites of active ingredients in third countries. this was rejected on the grounds that the costs of such checks would be too high. in fact, european companies are subject to very high quality standards, whereas companies producing in other regions of the world are not. we are voting in favour of this, however, because measures are being introduced to ensure greater safety for imported pharmaceutical products, including traceability, a ban on repackaging, compliance with european union safety standards, partial regulation of internet sales and the possibility of extending similar rules to over-the-counter medicines.
in writing. protecting the pharmaceutical supply chain from the introduction of falsified medicines is a duty owed to citizens and companies that conduct their business in a correct and responsible manner. the directive before parliament must therefore be strongly supported, since it introduces procedures and obligations which i hope will produce concrete and effective results. in particular, i would like to stress the importance of certain obligations on persons other than wholesale distributors who are involved in the distribution chain and, even more so, the provision of 'safety features' for prescription medicines, with the aim of providing consumers with assurances about the integrity of the production and distribution chain. stricter rules on inspection, on the traceability of substances in medicinal products and on online sales seem to me to be just as important as those to curb the trade in counterfeit medicines. it should be noted, however, that the compromise provides for regular inspections at the production sites of third countries but that these are carried out by the authorities of the same third country. it would have been better if they had been carried out by the competent authorities of the countries to which the medicinal products were destined, since the greatest danger of falsification arises precisely from third countries.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for the road map he has outlined for albania this evening, which i fully share. i am very much convinced that this is a country with a european perspective and that it should therefore be a candidate for membership. the bloody events of 21 january have set tirana back a few years; we felt we were witnessing the same scenes of protest and violence that we had already experienced in the 1990s. i am therefore very concerned about the recent events and the country's immediate future. during our last visit in november 2010 as a delegation from south east europe and the previous one on 3 and 4 may 2010 as a member of the european parliament's stabilisation and association committee, i and other colleagues experienced firsthand the difficult situation in albania. we have not been able to conclude the work with a final resolution of agreement. is it possible that you don't care about the real, real problems of the country? unemployment was mentioned - a real social cancer - other than political alchemy! we are calling for a return to responsibility. in this connection, while seeking to achieve at least basic convergence on the part of both the majority and the opposition, it is necessary to make every effort to ensure that the next round of elections is characterized by the highest possible level of transparency and democracy. on may 8th, mayor edi rama will run for the municipal elections in tirana we will have the opportunity to check and measure the political situation and democracy, of course with our presence. regardless of the progress made by albania during this period, europe will never stop seeking dialogue and cooperation. i thank the commissioner for the work he has done and will continue to do, because our presence in albania is important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian citizen i am not opposed to wiretapping when it is used legally. in italy, they are very useful in fighting the mafia and, in the last period, they have been used to incriminate president berlusconi for the crimes as yet unproven of concussion and child prostitution. the case of the bulgarian government, however, appears to be different, because it appears that the bulgarian government uses wiretapping to criminalize opposition, instilling widespread fear in complex societies and attempting to identify opponents with common criminals - which allows it to act without any respect for human rights with a police state. such a situation can only lead to a further development of social violence. i therefore believe that parliament and the european commission should pay particular attention to the situation in bulgaria, trying to limit the damage that the government's behaviour threatens to produce.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a liberal democrat in europe as well as in italy. but sometimes in my country, i and my party colleagues are called communists simply because we are in opposition to the government in power. it seems that the same thing is now happening to our bulgarian colleagues - liberal democrats or socialists - who are being branded criminals simply because they are an opposition force in their own country. it is a drift which we disapprove of because, if it is a joke, it must be short-lived: this is a behaviour which can be extremely dangerous. on the other hand, the italian foreign minister, not later than yesterday - after all that has happened in egypt and tunisia - paid a visit to damascus, syria, calling the latter "a democratic country which fully meets the need for the modernization of its citizens". if our representatives make such speeches, it is up to us in the european parliament to denounce them and the commission is obliged to be vigilant.
in writing. we hope that croatia will make rapid progress in its accession negotiations with the european union. accelerating croatia's accession is crucial given its strategic geopolitical position of access to central european markets. the need for integrated development of ports and links to european corridors arises from this, also in view of the fact that croatia will benefit from a significant flow of european funding, of which about 60% will be allocated to infrastructure. to achieve this, croatia must continue to adopt the necessary reforms, in particular by strengthening the public and judicial administration, fighting corruption and ensuring full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. i welcome the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. i regret the situation of the croatian shipyard, once the pearl of yugoslav industrial exports, and now a sector in near total ruin. i hope that the croatian government can conclude the restructuring process as soon as possible so that the competition chapter can also be closed. in particular, i stress the importance of croatia's accession in relation to the integrated maritime policy in the adriatic, which will soon also be formally an almost entirely european sea.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the intention of the hungarian presidency to conclude the negotiations in the first half of 2011 gives us particular optimism about the future of the balkan region and the accession of these countries to the european union. the croatian government has done a great deal to address the process of reform and the protection of human rights. there are still areas for improvement to ensure that croatia can be considered ready for the european union and its objectives contained in the europe 2020 strategy: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy and to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy. the european union will have a valuable pawn in the growth of its wealth and in the geopolitical balance between east and west, starting with the mediterranean region and north-east italy, from next autumn, if croatia continues to implement all the reforms necessary to complete the acquis communautaire. the development of european macro-regions, starting with the adriatic-ionian macro-region, of which italy will also be a part, will bring croatia rapidly to the centre of european programmes and policies.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy 2020 is a vast programme but the question is whether we can achieve the 20% renewable energy target by the target date, also in view of the financial crisis which is slowing down investment. there is a problem: by supporting solar energy, you're actually subsidizing china, which is now the world's largest exporter of solar panels, and india, which is the world's largest exporter of wind turbines. hence the need to support research for the production of european designed and manufactured solar panels and to promote the adoption of economies of scale in the solar photovoltaic sector, for example by introducing it massively in european cities. you should have done something very different: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. it has instead preferred, in an exaggerated liberalism, to favour different solutions, which are certainly not in the interests of the consumers-users, but of the shareholders of these large monopolies. let's remember that for 150 years, the co2 emissions from cars have not decreased. it is reasonable to ask whether research on water engines should not be pulled out of the drawers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that parliament must have sufficient time to be able to propose the best employment policy for 2020. in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing in europe, we cannot fail to take account of the needs of our people. it is essential to provide support for families, young people looking for work and those who are unemployed in the course of their working life. europe must have the courage to make choices, guaranteeing jobs first for its own citizens and then for those of third countries, and creating an interconnection between the employment offices of the various member states so that everyone, in any country, can know what jobs are available. particular attention must be paid to the defence of the frontiers to prevent an uncontrolled invasion of hundreds of thousands of immigrants who, given the political situation in the maghreb, are about to invade our territories. only controlled immigration, limited to the actual availability of jobs, can allow the integration of third-country nationals, avoiding tensions and discrimination to the detriment of economic growth and social welfare.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the vote: see minutes)
the agenda includes the report by marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal pharmaceutical supply chain of falsified medicinal products on the basis of identity, history or origin (com (2008) 0668 c6-0513/2008 2008/0261 (cod)).
i am in favour of the compromise reached on the proposal for a directive because, despite some problems, i think it is a good text which protects the patient from the great dangers of taking falsified medicines. over the years we have seen a huge increase in the number of counterfeit medicines, and the latest estimates put the number of illegal drugs sold in europe at about one and a half million, mainly via the internet. these data pose a serious threat not only to patients but also to european manufacturers. the protection of public health is at stake, as is the protection of consumers, who must be guaranteed strict safety measures and effective penalties by the member states. today's vote will introduce effective and flexible rules and will also deal with the fight against organised crime. to appreciate the need for security in the industry, consider that some 34 million illegal drugs were seized in 2008. perhaps a little more courage would have been needed in the matter of the traceability of medicines and active ingredients from third countries: but the one we have achieved today is still an important milestone.
mr president, the commission's proposal on preventing the entry of falsified medicines into the pharmaceutical chain highlights a concern which is becoming a priority for all european citizens: the quality and safety of the medicines we use every day. a new european strategy is therefore needed to combat the widespread spread of falsified medicines, with the dual aim of responding to this growing threat to public health and ensuring the safety of all patients. the latest reports on this subject have in fact recorded a real surge in the seizure of counterfeit medicines at customs, as well as an ever-increasing and therefore very dangerous tendency to counterfeit not only so-called comfort medicines but also life-saving medicines, including medicines for the treatment of cancer, heart disease, psychiatric disorders and infections.
mr president, the increase in the number of counterfeit medicines seized at the eu's borders in 2007 was 384 per cent compared with 2005. we have also seen an increase in the tendency to counterfeit even life-saving medicines, including medicines for cancer and heart disease, psychiatric disorders and infections. these data describe an alarming scenario in which patients risk facing situations such as treatment failure, endangering their health and, in some cases, their lives. i welcome the commission's proposal. however, the report by mrs matias correctly highlights the negative aspects and the points on which we cannot refrain from giving our citizens assurances. in particular, i would like to emphasize that the commission proposal does not provide exhaustive answers on the nature and characteristics of a falsified medicinal product, an active ingredient or an excipient, nor on the definitions concerning the various actors in the pharmaceutical chain, whose roles and responsibilities must be clarified. the penalties in the commission proposal are not adequate, but above all it does not take account of the sale of medicines on the internet, one of the main channels for counterfeit medicines to enter the european market.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs matias's text because the introduction of falsified medicines into legal supply chains is a threat to the whole european pharmaceutical system, because it undermines the confidence that citizens have in the quality of medicines sold in pharmacies and other places of legal distribution. it is important to put a stop to the gradual increase in the number of falsified medicines in all european countries, in order to protect and guarantee the health of our citizens. the active ingredients in a falsified medicinal product may be of lower quality than the standard, may be completely absent, or may be in the wrong dosage.
mr president, the official figures are clear: 1% of medicines legally sold in the european union are counterfeit. as if that were not enough, the latest investigations show that the phenomenon is steadily increasing and its proportions have now passed the guard level. as mr antoniozzi has already pointed out, the counterfeiting of life-saving medicines is particularly profitable when the production takes place in india or china and is then sold as european production. the dangers of these substances are unprecedented and can endanger the lives of those who use them for therapeutic purposes. i voted in favour of the report to say no to the wild west of online sales, the preferential entry channel that allows these poisons to enter the eu pharmaceutical market illegally. the adoption of this document will enable parliament to finally make its voice heard and to have the necessary instruments to find and punish these real dealers, these unscrupulous criminals who have been making their fortunes on the backs of sick people for too long.
mr president, the problem of falsified medicines is one which is having an increasingly widespread impact at international and community level, both because of the increase in the number of cases and because of the increase in the degree of sophistication of the cases. it is to these challenges that mr matias' report - the result of long and laborious negotiations - seeks to respond. this report, which we supported, defined a regulatory framework which, starting from more precise and detailed definitions, took into account all the actors, the moments and the dimensions of the pharmaceutical chain - safety, traceability, obligations for the distribution chain - and achieved a good compromise. these are some of the areas where we must try to work to achieve the main objective of establishing stricter standards, to prevent the entry of falsified medicines, and to achieve a positive and more complete regulatory framework capable of safeguarding the health of citizens, protecting them from the risk of serious consequences.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress of croatia's accession to the european union in the context of the enlargement process, because i consider both the start of this process and the progress made by croatia to be very important. what we want is basically that enlargement should not only extend to croatia but also to the whole of the western balkans. this is one of the central points of both the neighbourhood and enlargement policies of europe. i therefore express my strong support for the swoboda report.
mr president, the resolution adopted today sets out important principles for consumer protection, by increasing the safeguards against the spread of falsified medicines. this is a very dangerous phenomenon and one of the most significant remedies is to stop the sale of questionable medicines online and through the adoption of a series of safeguards we will have a strict regulation that requires authorization and controls. however, this does not mean that the forms of health protection and medical prescriptions are being cancelled out. it should be recalled that this does not affect the legislative power of the member states in this area and that they may maintain or restrict the prohibition on the sale of medicinal products online in their territory. this is an opportunity for the member states to regulate the matter better, but it must be remembered, mr president, that citizens can order medicines from another member state and that the opportunity for regulation must not be another opportunity to privilege the caste of pharmacists, but we must continue along this path of liberalization that the european union is charting with measures like this.
mr president, the number of counterfeit medicines has increased exponentially in recent years and it is regrettable that, despite a 384% increase in sales of these medicines from 2005 to 2007, the commission has been so late in coming up with an initiative. we are absolutely convinced of the positions of the rapporteur, who has tried to improve the commission's text, also dealing with the sale of medicines via the internet. i have asked the commission several times over the years about this matter and have warned of the danger, but i have never received any answers or any concrete initiative. we therefore welcome the rapporteur's efforts to improve the text today, and hope that the health of citizens will henceforth be a real priority for our institutions.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs matias' report because it is very important to raise safety standards and to establish effective, efficient and strict rules to prevent counterfeit medicines from being introduced into the european union. it is a requirement and a duty we have towards all european citizens, who are often unaware of the fact that they are buying a counterfeit medicine. i agree with the report's structure, which introduces obligations not only for distributors but also for all those involved in the supply chain. it is often in the various stages of the supply chain that risky products are introduced. the controls must not only be carried out at the time of marketing, but also at the sites where medicinal products and active ingredients are produced, including in third countries. but i have a question which they cannot help but express: i would have preferred the regulation to have regulated it more effectively, by harmonizing the different national laws, including online sales, to protect the european consumer 100 per cent.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because the resulting regulatory framework is certainly better than the 2001 directive. the latter imposed obligations on wholesale distributors only, and did not guarantee the reliability of the pharmaceutical chain. the report voted today introduces measures which will further guarantee the safety of pharmaceutical products, such as intensified inspections of manufacturers outside the european union on the basis of risk analyses. the amendment also provides for the need to publish in a european database the list of certified wholesale distributors, i.e. who have not been found to comply with eu legislation by an inspection by the member state. however, a more ambitious result could be hoped for, especially by introducing mandatory inspections at the production sites of active ingredients in third countries. the latter were omitted on the grounds that the costs of implementation would be too high. if they had been introduced, it would have been possible to avoid once again that, while european companies have to meet very high quality standards, those producing in other regions of the world benefit from regulatory frameworks that are certainly less stringent. i hope that in future improvements will be made.
mr president, there are more than 100 million workers in europe today who depend directly or indirectly on small and mediumsized enterprises. yet small and mediumsized enterprises are facing an unprecedented crisis: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. so this is the meaning of this resolution: parliament called for guarantee programmes for loans and credits for small and medium-sized enterprises and for a vigorous european initiative to counterbalance the new - and for many enterprises prohibitive - bank requirements, particularly in respect of collateral guarantees and higher risk premiums. finally, i share the need to significantly increase funding under the competitiveness and innovation programme and to give a strong and determined boost to the theme of simplification: the commission has also proposed that the rules on the use of the funds be simplified and streamlined so that firms wishing to access the funds can do so without having to resort to costly external advice. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, it is necessary to evaluate and review the existing instruments to support the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises in view of the forthcoming multiannual financial framework if we are to focus, also in this sector, on stimulating the recovery of the real economy with a view to finally overcoming the crisis. this is also necessary to protect the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises when setting higher capital requirements for banks as proposed by basel iii in terms of equity capital; is required by the situation of many financial intermediaries, discouraged by the administrative burdens created by complex european financial regulations; is influenced by the difficulties created by the different tax and support regimes and is suggested by the need to make the union support programmes coherent, in order to provide greater guarantees and a good balance between the national and union schemes. i therefore support the proposal to set up a single window for the various financing instruments for smes. simplifying offers and market access procedures is an important support even if more funding is needed. huge sums have been spent to save banks from sudden collapse: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution because i am convinced that a european strategy is needed with regard to smes, which, as we all know, are the building blocks of our economy and must be supported and helped. the next financial programming of the european union cannot therefore ignore these considerations and must increase and diversify the resources available. but this is only one measure, and it is still not enough, and more must be added. it is important to act with the help of a long-term strategy, avoiding one-off or one-off buffer measures - i am referring to the new financial rules that the european union is about to put in place. these new regulations must not lead to a restriction of the granting of credit to firms - i am also referring to basle iii. this is the real new challenge: to reconcile and regulate the banking system, avoiding that the costs are passed on to firms, citizens and smes. it is growth that contributes to both the recovery and the support of the sector, moving from theoretical approaches to practice.
mr president, the demographic developments of recent years make it necessary to consider the need to implement a strategy capable of strengthening cohesion and consistency in the field of pensions, of promoting solidarity between generations and between individuals, while at the same time helping to guarantee a secure and adequate income after retirement. i agree with the rapporteur when she points out that there are great differences between pension systems in europe, which have been severely affected by the severe economic and financial crisis with the increase in unemployment, the fall in growth, the reduction in investment returns and the growth in public debt. pension funds have greater difficulty in securing adequate pensions and, in some cases, in honouring contractual commitments. many member states have made major cuts in their pension systems. financial sustainability is important, but the need to ensure adequate income must also be taken into account. sustainable budgets and adequate pension systems are not conflicting objectives but two sides of the same coin: true sustainability cannot be achieved without adequate retirement income. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations.
mr president, the efficiency of social spending, given the pressure it exerts on budgets, is now of fundamental importance in the economic systems of the member states. we have seen this in recent years, when we have seen an increase in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, with the result that budget deficits in many member states have worsened, followed by problems in financing pensions. i welcome the report by mrs oomen-ruijten, which aims to give new impetus at national and european union level by contributing to the creation of sound, long-term adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that we do not yet have common criteria or definitions, nor a thorough analysis to explain the various pension systems in all their aspects and their adequacy in relation to the needs of citizens. i wonder how it is possible to tackle such a sensitive subject in the absence of such a study. i therefore call on the commission to remedy this shortcoming by taking appropriate action to classify the pension systems of the member states by type and to produce a set of common definitions which will make the systems compatible.
mr president, i thank you for your generosity, because during debates we never have the opportunity to waste a minute and so this is an extra opportunity given to us to speak and to argue, in this case, the explanations of vote, which are in any case the basis of the reports we are voting on. the european pension systems are in an increasingly alarming state. we must act now to ensure equal opportunities for men and women, to protect those who decide to retire today and at the same time to protect those who are just starting out in the labour market. in europe, women still earn on average 18 per cent less than men. the main effect of this wage disparity is on retirement age: the women who have received a lower income during their working life also have lower pensions. as a result, women are more affected by persistent poverty than men. especially in times of crisis, the gender perspective needs to be mainstreamed into all policies, with national measures being shared and coordinated at european level.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the compromise that has been reached with great difficulty in our committee is essentially a positive one, as it is a tool to call on the member states to ensure adequate, sustainable and transferable pensions in europe, in view of a very significant ageing of the population. i would like to make three critical remarks, however, which i hope the european commission will take up in the white paper that has been announced. the first: the lack of recognition of the importance of the third pillar in pension systems. the second: although the existence of a gender pension income gap has been recognised as a result of the wage gap, interruptions for care periods and higher female unemployment, there has been no provision for - what would be desirable - outward flexibility criteria for women of retirement age, with adequate recognition of care periods for the purposes of the definition of retirement age. the third: the right of european citizens to a common programme of education and information on their social security and insurance position should be affirmed, particularly for young people and workers throughout their working lives.
mr president, i went to croatia several times in the early 1990s, during the war, to bring humanitarian aid, and that is why i am very keen to see croatia join the european union. croatia has done a lot: the eu's external relations policy is based on the principles of the european union's external relations policy, which is based on the principles of the european union's external relations policy. i am convinced that croatia's accession will encourage the rest of the western balkan countries to launch and implement new democratic and transparent reforms and a good neighbourhood policy. but there is still much to be done in memory of the vast ethnic cleansing of the italian population carried out between 1945 and 1948 by the croatian authorities' militias of the former yugoslav communist regime, during which more than 20,000 innocent victims were massacred. on 10 february, with the day of remembrance, italy commemorates the martyrs of the foibe and the istrian-dalmatia exiles, not only to remember those who were brutally killed but also to reaffirm the rights of the exiles, starting from the property confiscated during those years, and the right to return.
in writing. - i support the statement made by my colleague, mrs grossetête, who regretted that 'we are not as demanding on medicines as we are on food'. the data released by the who and also by european studies are alarming. the counterfeiting of medicines is on the rise. in 2008 alone, 34 million counterfeit medicines were seized in the eu, not to mention the online marketplace for these products, where it is estimated that between 50% and 90% of medicines available for purchase are counterfeit. we are not only talking about the trafficking of anabolic, stimulant, diuretic or hormonal products, but also of drugs for treating a number of dangerous diseases which, although subject to medical prescription, are sold freely and at a lower price. i believe that strict regulation to protect the health of citizens is essential not only in the legal pharmaceutical supply chain, by implementing devices that detect tampering with the packaging and traceability of the active ingredients, so as to understand the origin, or by carrying out inspections at production sites in third countries, but also on the web. provision should also be made for online sales, including an eu certification logo, a centralised national database of all authorised retailers and strict penalties for traffickers of illegal products.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion on the prevention of the entry of falsified medicines into the pharmaceutical chain highlights an important concern of european citizens, namely the quality and safety of the medicines they use. i therefore welcome the measures to combat the phenomenon of falsified medicines, which are a necessary step both to respond to this growing threat to the health of citizens and to ensure the safety of patients. after some six months of negotiations, the agreement reached between parliament and the council is certainly an improvement on the existing regulatory framework and, in particular, regulates the sale of medicines via the internet, which is one of the main ways through which counterfeit medicines are placed on the union market. in fact, in the member states, online pharmacies will have to obtain a special authorisation to supply medicines to the public via the internet in order to be able to operate. finally, since i believe that the counterfeiting of medicines should not be considered a minor offence - let us think of the counterfeiting of life-saving medicines - but rather a criminal activity that puts human lives at risk, i fully support the strengthening of the sanctioning measures.
in writing. − the presence of counterfeit medicines is increasing rapidly in all european countries. this is confirmed by recent figures which show that 1.5 million counterfeit boxes are sold each year in europe by the legal pharmaceutical industry. new estimates point to a worrying increase in this phenomenon, which also affects online sales of medicines and, even more seriously, increasingly also involves so-called innovative and life-saving medicines. a new european strategy to combat this phenomenon and to better protect public health and european consumers must therefore be implemented as soon as possible. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe it has the merit of having reached a good compromise, the main objective of which is to protect the patient against the use of counterfeit medicines.
in writing. - i agree with the matias report that patients must have absolute certainty about the quality of the medicines they take. the use of counterfeit medicines is so harmful to patients that it is life threatening, as shown by the studies carried out: it is therefore right to regard counterfeiting as a criminal act which merits a strong position from the european union. i therefore share the report's points, such as: the clear definition of the scope and the actors in the pharmaceutical supply chains, in such a way as to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the various actors; the equalisation of penalties with those for drug-related offences; enhanced transparency and regulation of the sale of medicines on the internet, allowing consumers to distinguish between illegal operators and online pharmacies. today more than ever, active cooperation between the various national and international bodies responsible is an essential element for a more effective system of combating pharmaceutical counterfeiting, which can ensure adequate control not only of pharmaceutical counterfeiting within the european union but also of counterfeit medicines exported to third countries, the number of which continues to increase. always having the welfare of the patient as our guiding principle.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs matias on her excellent work. counterfeit medicines are "silent killers" in that they have no effect, containing toxic substances that can harm, or even kill, those who take them. the absence of a framework law encourages counterfeiting, an organized crime. we've seen an unprecedented growth in this criminal activity, with a 400 percent increase in seizures of counterfeit drugs since 2005. it is estimated that 1% of medicines currently sold to the european public through the legal supply chain are falsified and that this number is increasing. in other parts of the world, over 30 percent of the medicines sold may have been counterfeit. moreover, more and more innovative and life-saving medicines are counterfeit. therefore, we have today passed a new law to prevent counterfeit medicines from entering the legal pharmaceutical supply chain and to protect patient safety. the legislation also covers internet sales and introduces new security features and traceability measures, as well as penalties for counterfeiters to prevent the sale of counterfeit medicines to eu citizens.
in writing. − last october, the european commission presented a policy paper entitled 'an integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era', which contains a series of concrete initiatives aimed at giving a strong impetus to european industrial policy. smes, as commissioner tajani said yesterday in the chamber, are the 'life-saving' of economic development. one in four jobs depends on industry, as does our global competitiveness, innovation and research. the commitment and coordination between the european and national institutions, banks and smes is necessary to dismantle bureaucratic obstacles and simplify the rules. much progress has been made in recent months with the adoption of the late payments directive, the protection of brands and products, the opportunities for the development of the green economy and new policies focusing on tourism, but much more remains to be done. many businesses in the eu area are dependent on eu funding and facilities and for this reason access to credit must be guaranteed and improved. in fact, this is a priority objective which i hope will be addressed carefully in the review of the small business act which will be presented on 23 february in rome by commissioner tajani himself.
in writing. the employment emergency is more than enough reason to welcome a text in which the call for the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the field of pensions finally recognizes that governments must be the protagonists in the reconstruction of social europe. only a courageous choice in favour of neighbourly democracy, based on employment reforms that make work more attractive, based on the federalism of the payroll that takes account of the different costs of living in each region of europe - to which both wages and pensions should be adapted - would represent the real turning point towards the renaissance. in all this, i would like to stress the importance of smes, which, because of their large number throughout europe, are generators of employment and sustainability. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
in writing. - i believe that this resolution is in some ways a due act towards an economic sector - that of small and mediumsized enterprises - which plays a very important role in the community economy. a review of the support instruments is also appropriate in the context of an economic crisis that is particularly hard on smes, as the loss of 3 million 250 thousand employees between 2009 and 2010 alone (more than a third of the new jobs created by this sector) eloquently documents. in this context, i believe it is important to encourage cooperation between the european commission and the european bank, in particular by supporting those investments which can maximise the effectiveness of sme funding programmes. in particular, credit continuity needs to be ensured through liquidity and capitalisation measures and new measures in three strategic areas to boost the competitiveness of firms in a still difficult but certainly more development-oriented phase: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. with the directive against late payment by public authorities, europe has already given an important signal to support smes, and it is right to continue in this direction if we want to stimulate economic growth in europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european small and mediumsized enterprises make a major contribution to the economic growth of the european union. there are 23 million smes, which correspond to 99% of all european enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with the motion for a resolution we have voted today we have tried to send a clear message to the commission: these enterprises must not be abandoned. that is why, through my vote in favour, we are calling for more funding for smes, for simplification of bureaucracy and for the standards required to obtain funding to enable smes to benefit from it, and we are also calling for more funds to be allocated to research. the economic crisis which has gripped europe in recent years must be overcome and it is only through the support we give to these enterprises that we can hope to revive our economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it can help the more than 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, which with their 100 million jobs make a fundamental contribution to economic growth and social cohesion in the european union. in recent years, too often, banks have been demanding more guarantees from smes that need capital to expand or relaunch their business. this is why there is a need to significantly increase the financial instruments that can meet these realities, by encouraging the implementation of instruments that allow, for example, the distribution of risk among the various parties involved. the complexity of the european union's financial regulations also often involves a huge expenditure of time and money, and only for bureaucratic purposes. now that the shared guidelines are in place, it is up to the member states to take ad hoc initiatives to revive and support the specific reality of their smes, fuelling the growth of a sector which, alone, represents over 90% of all enterprises in the union, and without which the very lifeblood of our economy would be lacking.
in writing. - demographic change, i.e. the reversal of the demographic pyramid which we will be witnessing in the near future, and the increase in life expectancy, thanks to which the elderly remain active for longer and extend their participation in social life, are leading us to reflect on social security systems. the economic and financial crisis, together with demographic developments, has had an impact on pension schemes. pension funds, as a result of rising unemployment, declining growth, lower investment returns and rising public debt, are having greater difficulty securing adequate pensions. in particular, young people with a higher level of education enter the labour market later and the working life is shortened without reaching the legal retirement age. it should also be borne in mind that inadequate pension income can lead to a contraction in consumption which, as a result of the decline in market demand, leads to economic instability in a country. in this context, i believe it is essential to launch initiatives that redefine the future of young people and the elderly, helping to guarantee a secure and adequate income after retirement, while also bearing in mind the need to revive the responsibilities of the member states, the social partners and europe.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on bringing such a topical and sensitive subject to the attention of this house. it is true that the economic and financial crisis and demographic trends, with the increase in life expectancy, are leading to the strengthening of pension policies in all member states. these measures thus encourage the modernisation and coordination of national policies on pension adjustment, sustainability, work-life balance, increased transparency of pension schemes and solvency protection. i particularly agree with the rapporteur's attention to women's work, which is often discriminated against in relation to men's work, including in the field of pensions. i also agree with the need to extend the careers of workers through a modern labour policy and improved working conditions and i agree with the need to make pension systems and information to citizens more transparent. i am very concerned, however, about the serious repercussions that the measures advocated in this document may have on the public coffers of the member states, many of which are already under severe pressure from the severe economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed text because pensions are one of the fundamental institutions of the system of workers' rights and obligations. it is essential for the continuation of a decent standard of living for the person concerned and for the whole family to which he or she belongs, especially with regard to adequate support for a decent standard of living for himself or herself and his or her family. by setting this threshold as a long-term objective, it is clear that the sustainability of pension systems is necessary to give workers a minimum of certainty about their prospects. while respecting the principle of bottom-up subsidiarity, with primary power and responsibility for adequacy and reform opportunities for member states, there is a need for convergence of pension systems at european level, in order to ensure full and effective freedom of movement for workers and businesses and full and mutual recognition and similarity of the different pension systems of the member states. in fact, while taking into account the differences in the cost of living and wage levels between member states, there is a need for long-term convergence, both within each member state and across the eu, to promote a decent standard of living commensurate with life expectancy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mrs ria oomen-ruijten is based on the commission's green paper, presented in july 2010, which sets out the commission's concerns regarding the adequacy and sustainability of pension systems at european level. this book serves as a prelude to the future white paper, which contains a general analysis of the 27 member states and a projection of the guidelines which the eu proposes to its members and from which effective feedback is expected. i have had a positive reaction to the report and have therefore voted in favour of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the organisation of a european platform on pensions could be a perfect opportunity to open a debate between the european institutions and the social partners concerned. the final aim is to adapt pension systems and contextualize them with the demographic and economic variables that our world is experiencing.
in writing. - i wanted to express my positive opinion of the oomen-ruijten report on future pension systems in europe, since it clearly sets out a principle which should always be a cornerstone of european actions and initiatives: the principle of subsidiarity. in order to respond to a real need, namely a reassessment of european pension systems as a result of changing demographic, economic and social conditions, it was decided to leave room for manoeuvre to the individual member states within a general european framework. the situation and conditions in the various countries are too different to think that we can draw up common binding rules, and it is therefore right that the principle of subsidiarity, which is indispensable, has been respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague because i believe that, in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity, trying to lay the foundations for an important objective such as a common european pension system is a great step forward towards genuine socio-political integration. the legislative framework is certainly complex, but the european commission's white paper on pension systems already offers a direction for the union. the report specifically aims to establish appropriate, sustainable and safe criteria by inviting member states to discuss the topic, to publicise the proposals created and to coordinate for a concrete joint project through the open coordination method. we are discussing the eu-wide economic governance package to reform the stability and growth pact and establish common rules. but no state can ignore pension reform if it wants to keep its finances in order. for this reason, i think it is logical that having common rules in this area would make the monitoring and implementation of the sgp much easier.
in writing. the report on 'adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe' was voted on in plenary today. the commission, taking into account demographic developments and the effects of the economic and financial crisis, considered that in order to modernise pension policies, coordinated action is needed on: adjustment of pension schemes, sustainability, work-life balance, removal of obstacles to mobility, increased transparency of pension schemes and protection of solvency. the aim of this report is to recognise and maintain the responsibilities of everyone in order to create a sustainable, secure and adequate pension system at member state level. a modern system that recognises above all that the new generation needs mobility and that can offer solutions not only for the present but also for the near future.
in writing. - european pension systems are in an increasingly alarming state. we must act now to ensure equal opportunities for men and women, to protect those who decide to retire today and at the same time to protect those who are just starting out in the labour market. in europe, women continue to earn on average 18% less than men. the main effect of this wage disparity is seen in the retirement age: the women who have received a lower income during their working life also have lower pensions. as a result, women are more affected by persistent poverty than men. especially in times of crisis, the gender perspective needs to be mainstreamed into all policies, with national measures being shared and coordinated at european level. i voted in favour of the oomen-ruijten report because i believe it is a good compromise which can support the dialogue between member states and the european institutions on the modernisation of pension systems.
in writing. − we support the green paper report on adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe, as the european commission aims to help member states without taking away the competence of individual countries, which must assess the link between life expectancy and the age of mandatory retirement. the aim is also to remove obstacles to crossborder mobility and to establish a european insurance and occupational pensions authority, responsible for emergency coordination and support to member states.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs oomen-ruijten's report, although i think that the text voted on is too cautious in repeatedly stressing the importance of the principle of subsidiarity. i believe, however, that this report, pending the forthcoming publication of the commission's white paper, can make it possible to continue the work of effective cooperation between the member states and the community institutions on the difficult subject of the modernization of pension systems in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that croatia is making good progress in implementing the reforms necessary for accession to the european union. i think that croatia is ready to compete with the other countries of the european union in economic terms. despite the global crisis, it has managed to maintain a certain macroeconomic stability, in particular through the development of service infrastructures and tourism. i believe that the country must be encouraged to make the best use of its resources, in particular its geographical position, which is strategic for the links between western europe and the balkans, between central europe, the adriatic sea and the mediterranean. further development of infrastructure could provide enormous potential for the country. in this context, cooperation with the european union in the implementation of the sections of the ten-t, ten-e and e-tens which also concern the territory of croatia and which could be developed in a ppp system and in full cooperation with the eu is bearing fruit. the negotiations will be concluded in the first half of 2011, when the accession process will be closed. i am confident that this deadline will be met.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on croatia, parliament welcomed the improvements made by croatia in several areas, which are bringing it closer to the european union. what this country has done in the last year deserves to be remembered, because substantial changes have been made to the constitution to bring it into line with the fundamental charters of the other 27 member states. efforts have been made to make the judiciary impartial and independent; the eu has also launched war crimes trials and made significant progress on women's rights and gender equality. i fully agree with that proposal because i strongly believe that croatia deserves to become a member state. there is no doubt that more needs to be done, especially in the fight against corruption, but this does not take away from the fact that the country is making considerable progress towards joining the european union.
in writing. − the accession of croatia to the european union is a significant incentive for the countries of the balkan area to pursue their efforts and reforms with a view to their future accession to the union. the accession of croatia to the union will extend the area of peace and stability in europe and thus involve a dual european and regional dimension, which would encourage the western balkan countries to find greater cohesion at regional level. i welcome the positive progress made by croatia in respecting and protecting minorities; however, the country needs to take appropriate measures to ensure greater protection and participation in civil society for the roma minority. the roma are still discriminated against and do not have adequate representation in the central and local bodies of croatian political life. synergies at regional level, in particular in the framework of the danube strategy, should be further developed and applied, as increased social and economic exchanges would benefit the entire danube macro-region. i am referring in particular to cooperation in the fields of transport, the environment and economic development. greater regional cohesion will facilitate the future accession of the entire western balkan area to the european union.
in writing. - the balkans are a crucial area for the future geopolitical structure of the european union, and croatia is the country most advanced in the accession process. in this region, europe could really make a difference, acting as a real driving force through economic and political reforms. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, in view of the policy of integration and expansion towards democracy and the market economy in south-west europe. i believe that stopping and/or hindering enlargement to the balkans will certainly not save the european economy. it is therefore important to see croatia as a country which will help the whole union to open its doors to other countries in the area. it will therefore play a strategic role as a precursor to this new path of integration and development.
in writing. − accession negotiations with croatia can be completed in the first half of 2011 provided that the necessary reforms continue to be pursued with determination, in particular those aimed at fighting corruption, ensuring the return of refugees, implementing the restructuring of shipyards, and reforming the constitution and the judiciary. as regards corruption, i acknowledge the commitment of the croatian government, which is evident, for example, in the cases of the trials involving two former ministers and a former prime minister, but this is a phenomenon which continues to be a serious general problem. reforms to the judicial system must also continue, in particular by continuing the prosecution of war crimes and improving witness protection programmes. the biggest challenge, however, may be to explain the benefits of eu membership to a rather sceptical public. indeed, according to a recent eurobarometer survey, there is concern that a majority of croatian citizens believe that eu membership would not bring benefits to the country. i therefore call on the government and civil society to mobilise so that the croats understand that the european project also belongs to them. the accession to the union will nevertheless be subject to a popular referendum.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the state of progress of croatia in the european union accession procedures. if zagreb continues on the path of reform as it has done in recent years, there is a good chance that the negotiations can be completed as early as june. rather, the greater challenge now seems to be to convince the local population that eu membership will bring tangible benefits to their country, as a recent official eurobarometer survey seems to show the opposite. given that accession will be subject to a popular referendum, we must mobilize to make sure that the croatian people understand that the great 'european project' belongs to their history and their future.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, in this unique and solemn moment, i recall the early days of the european convention when we were discussing how what used to be called the ‘democratic deficit of the european integration process’ could be eliminated, or at least reduced. there was a common goal which we all shared, and that was to enhance the democratic functioning of the european union. one way of doing that has just been found, and that is to foster the participation of the citizens themselves in the democratic life of the union. that is how, and that is why, the right of the citizens’ initiative was included in the treaty, and now citizens can approach the european commission directly and invite it to submit a proposal for a legislative act of the european union. i firmly believe that this is a milestone on the path towards more democracy in the union. it is also the first element of direct democracy. it establishes direct contact and dialogue between the institutions and citizens and encourages cross-border direct dialogue and cooperation. it also encourages a sense of ownership: europe is not them – europe is us, and europe will develop as we shape it ourselves, all of us together. yes, our motto, ‘a strong europe with a human touch’ depends upon all of us. to achieve these goals and to implement the treaty, clear, simple and user-friendly rules of procedure had to be established. this has now been done and was the result of the good cooperation between all the institutions – the commission, the council and first and foremost, the european parliament. i would like to extend my special thanks to mr maroš šefčovič of the commission; i would like to express my thanks to the spanish and the belgian presidencies, both of them members of our trio; and very special thanks and congratulations also have to be extended to the european parliament, to all those who were involved in this extremely important job: the chairs of the committees, and also the rapporteurs alain lamassoure, zita gurmai, diana wallis and gerald häfner, and all the other members who participated in this extremely important work. this is a demonstration of the excellent cooperation and understanding not only between the european institutions, but also among the different political families or groups. i can only express my hope that this cooperation and this understanding will have set a model for the future, both for the institutions and for the political groups.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the rise in food prices.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in food prices calls for two types of response. the first concerns the need to plan for medium and longterm action. the new community agricultural policy must provide the answers to these questions, guaranteeing food security for the citizens of europe, offering consumers food at reasonable prices and safeguarding farmers' incomes. with the new cap we must - and we are doing - give strong support to agricultural incomes under the first pillar and support measures for rural development by increasing investment in agriculture and food security. the second answer is that urgent action is needed to protect the weakest link in the chain, because when food prices fluctuate, there are quite strange effects: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is clear then that there are problems in the supply chain and a lack of transparency. commissioner, these serious problems in the supply chain are represented, for example, by the abuse of dominant purchasing power, unfair contracting practices including late payments unilateral changes to contracts, advance payments to access negotiations and uneven distribution of profit margins along the food supply chain. the commission must present measures... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, social tensions, such as those recently experienced in north africa, are almost always triggered by increases in food prices. the record increases in cereals, sugar and vegetable oils are a clear manifestation of the growing imbalance between global supply and demand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must therefore be clearly aware that agricultural policies - the common agricultural policy for the european union and the farm bill for the united states - have an extraordinary and strategic role for the global structures that goes far beyond the legitimate protection of farmers' income. we need a new global food policy, mr president, coordinating agricultural policies at international level. i personally hope that the next g20 will be an opportunity to make a real start on this new path.
i have to say, madam president, a few days ago, one of the largest german newspapers featured on its front page a picture of a buckskin with barbed wire around it. the subject was the struggle for bread. i think, in fact, that in this decade and in the decades to come, there will be few issues that concern us more than the question of food availability. so it's good that we're talking about this, because the cause of this is that the demand will continue to rise, and so the prices will continue to rise. we must now give political support to this. we need to think about how to produce food and how to make it available. the idea, commissioner, of proposing further reductions in area under the cap by means of a screening is a wrong approach. we must also produce on the land we have. but we must not be too negative about it. we have been complaining for years that food prices are too low. if we consider whether, say, 100 euros for a ton of wheat is really a fair price, then we have to say that it may not be. if we think about the share of raw material prices in the final product, for example bread, then i think that the rise in food prices is not just due to the rise in raw material prices, but also to many other things. in this respect, the whole thing is also an opportunity for agriculture to position itself better in the future.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the concern about the rise in food prices and it could not be otherwise, since this is a problem which affects the lives of european citizens very closely and especially the less well-off classes. these increases make it impossible for the population of all developing countries to meet their basic food needs. the developed countries, including europe, cannot remain indifferent to this scenario. the new common agricultural policy must therefore include instruments to reduce price volatility, to limit speculation on agricultural commodities and to ensure an adequate level of production within the community. i must therefore stress that we cannot leave land unused at a time when the world population is increasing, and therefore the food supply must also increase.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fall of mubarak opens the way not only to democracy but also to extraordinary opportunities for redemption for the egyptian people. the reform of democratic institutions will, among other things, allow for greater economic development and the possibility of spreading welfare to all social strata, including the weakest. without democracy, economic development will only serve to enrich a few families, as it has always been in these countries without any social justice. the european policy must therefore accompany egypt in its reforms and help the egyptian people to choose their own future. on the other hand, we must be clear with the future government in cairo and stress that a new and more generous policy of partnership will be conditional on the security of the region and peace with israel.
(asking mr madlener a blue-card question under rule 149(8)) mr president, the tragic outcome of the egyptian transition to democracy has been described. it has been said that it was inevitable that islamic fundamentalists would take over power democratically, and so on and so on. do you not think that this picture is catastrophic, and wrong? why do we not take into account the fact that the reasons for islamic fundamentalism and terrorism in the middle east are strongly linked to tyrannical governments, and that there is now an opportunity for democratic regimes to reduce both?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, egypt: from the virtual facebook square to the real one, with millions of people demanding a fairer distribution of wealth and more justice and protesting against corruption. we must move from the transition of soldiers and tanks to a true democracy: the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. it's going to be tough. in the lurch are those who, in the name of an idea, think they can use any means. we want to believe in the wonderful egyptian people who have never experienced democracy. we want a secular democracy, with a clear separation of religious and political power, a democracy that integrates minorities and realizes real rights: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. europe should support this process by investing resources which can help egypt to develop genuinely: no more dictatorships, no more misery, no more poverty.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to inform you that, when the plane was touching down this morning in strasbourg, i got the good news that the hungarian prime minister has agreed to amend the media law so that it complies with all aspects of eu law that we, the european commission have raised, including the concerns raised regarding the charter of fundamental rights. they assure me that the amendments will be adopted by the hungarian government at its next session. the body language of the representatives of the hungarian government gives me the feeling that this is correct and that it will be tabled in the hungarian parliament within the coming days. the four areas where the hungarian authorities agreed to amend their law are the following. number one: balanced coverage. the amendments agreed would limit the balanced reporting requirements to broadcasting, as in other member states, and would no longer apply those requirements to on-demand audiovisual media services or the written press. moreover, any restrictions on broadcasters would need to respect the principle of proportionality. of course the commission will monitor the way that principle is translated into secondary law. i mentioned four areas. the second one is the country-of-origin principle. the amendments agreed would mean that foreign broadcasters could no longer be fined for breaching the hungarian media law’s provisions on protection of minors or incitement to hatred. instead the hungarian authorities could suspend transmission of such services on hungarian territory, which is in line with the avms directive. what does that mean? it means that broadcasters legally established and authorised in other member states, and compliant with the laws of those countries, would be free to broadcast to hungary without running the risk of being subject to fines by hungarian authorities.number three: media registration. the amendments agreed would mean that audiovisual media service providers would have to register only after they begin offering their services, and that is in line with the directive. it means that audiovisual media service providers and publishers would no longer be subject to prior authorisation by the hungarian authorities. number four: offensive content. additionally, the hungarian government agreed to amend another provision of its media law that raised concerns with respect to the freedom of expression. a provision of the media law specified very broadly that media content may not cause offence, even by implication, to individuals, minorities or majorities. the amendments agreed would limit the prohibition to discriminatory treatment. moreover those provisions would no longer apply to media service providers established in other eu countries. we will work closely with the hungarian authorities to make sure that the agreed changes are now adopted into hungarian law and applied in practice. we will continue to monitor the situation, but that is quite clear. needless to say, the commission is also verifying the national rules implementing the avms directive in other member states and will raise similar concerns where necessary. the commission does not shy away from using its powers. it does not shy away from defending media freedom and pluralism when it is needed, and the present case hopefully pre-empts and proves that. i can assure you that the commission acknowledges and shares the concerns that many of you and parts of civil society have about the general state of the media in europe. i am ready to go further and take action in the matter of media pluralism within the eu competences, of course respecting subsidiarity. the commission not only has a duty, but also a sincere interest, in facilitating the dialogue amongst stakeholders and policymakers at a european level. the changing structure of the media landscape in europe causes concern for the future. it brings opportunities but also wider risks for media pluralism beyond the ownership use. it is quite clear that we need an approach to measuring media pluralism in a broad sense; one that will bring together legal, economic and social aspects, rather than treating them quite separately, as has often been the case up until now. therefore, i intend to establish a multi-stakeholder group and ask them to address the challenges for the media at present and in the future, including the situation of media pluralism in europe. since you know that i value your input very much, the european parliament will be represented in the group of experts, if you will accept that invitation. i will announce details quite soon. the group will be asked to advise me on the next steps to be taken concerning the media landscape and i am fully committed to taking concrete action within all the competences that i have.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am taking part in the debate with a little embarrassment because the commissioner has basically told us that there is no point in having this debate because there is no point in arguing. we would not be in this situation if other members had listened to us when we asked for a little more time in previous meetings of committees and discussions in this house, because in the end the hungarian government had always shown itself willing to listen to the european commission's observations, and it would have been strange otherwise, given that hungary is currently holding the presidency of the european union. but it was decided to go ahead anyway, perhaps - indeed, certainly - because of ideological and political factors, and it was decided that this discussion should take place. resolutions have been tabled which are due to be voted on tomorrow. perhaps we should have been more cautious and had more confidence in those governments which were democratically elected by the people, starting with hungary, whose people elected it with such a large percentage that it certainly did not need to manipulate the media to gain consensus within itself. i personally think that the most useful thing to do is to ask our socialist and liberal colleagues who have tabled resolutions of a certain kind to withdraw them, thus avoiding ridicule and allowing this parliament to return to the real problems of the european citizens. i would like to thank the commissioner for her work.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, this page of parliamentary history will certainly not be remembered as exhilarating. the criticism and attacks that were timely rained down on the hungarian government, in conjunction with the european union presidency, on the alleged total discrepancy of the hungarian media law with european legislation, were reduced to what they were: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political forces which have promoted this uninspiring debate bear the responsibility of a certain manoeuvre of a low political level, heavily tainted by these connotations of pure ideology and which also has the defect of casting an undeserved shadow on the presidency of the european union for the first time - this is indeed a great political and historical fact - of a former communist country, today together with us in freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the hungarian government has shown a great deal of sensitivity to europe and to the principles on which it is based. in fact, immediately after the passing of the hungarian media law, there was a campaign unleashed by the left using the formula "mouth-watering law". in reality, only those who have experienced communism, fascism and nazism know what a gag law is, while democratic states know that freedom and pluralism of information are constitutive of democracy: but they must be in harmony with all the other powers of the rule of law and must not undermine, in particular, the foundation of democracy, which is human dignity. for example, the italian constitution itself, in article 21, guarantees freedom of information, but also directly prohibits publications contrary to good morals. the 1948 law on freedom of the press in italy, which no one has ever challenged, establishes the obligation not to grant permission but to register every publication, as does hungarian law. the reservations which the european commission has rightly expressed do not detract from the declared finality of the hungarian law, and this finality of respect for human dignity is demonstrated precisely by the attitude which the hungarian government has taken, by being readily open to accepting criticism and taking responsibility for changing the law according to the indications given to it. the statement that the fundamental rights of the european union will be enshrined in the hungarian constitution is also proof of this fundamental will of hungary to integrate into european culture. in conclusion, the only point of this debate is to blame hungary for having supported the government and parliament democratically by a two-thirds majority. but this is a cause for hope for europe, not for criticism. so i thank the commission for its work and i thank the hungarian government.
mr president, you who are president of the union, this is such a serious matter that we must rise above the odious polemics i have just heard in this house, because it is the health of a democracy that is at stake when we talk about the media. mr president, i am one of those who have admiration and affection for your country and for the hungarian people. i understand that your government and a section of the public wanted a better balance in the handling of information and, objectively, they were right. but you don't correct one propaganda by another propaganda. so i'm happy tonight, but i'm also on my toes. i am glad to see that your government has decided to reverse some of the fundamental points and to amend the media law of december 2001. it was necessary, and you did well to come. i am also glad that you are returning to a better respect for the charter of fundamental rights, which your people have always longed for throughout recent history. i want to commend the work of commissioner neelie kroes and i approve the setting up of her expert monitoring group. but we will be vigilant, because we also feel that a number of points have not been dealt with and, secondly, we will look carefully at the details of the legislative amendments. in conclusion, mr president of the european union, i would like to say that you are the heirs of the homeland of liszt, the homeland of kossuth, the homeland of joel brand, the hero of 1940, the homeland of sándor kopácsi and colonel maléter of 1956. you are the heirs of sándor márai. you are the heirs of imre kertész. then don't let us down! a hungarian invented a magical game, it's called the rubik's cube. do not teach us europeans to play with the media in the jobbik's cube because it is a hateful game.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while accepting that those who have so strongly criticised the hungarian law are only and exclusively in favour of freedom of the media, i believe that we must also show respect for the work done by the commission and for the content of the debate in parliament. i think we must take responsibility - to avoid a bad chapter in the history of our parliament - by not voting tomorrow, simply by cancelling a resolution based on contents that do not correspond to reality, as the commissioner's speech has shown. i therefore also invite the council and the commission to make informal contacts with the conference of presidents so that there can be the necessary and indispensable exchange of information which will enable the house to vote tomorrow, even before the resolutions, on the decision not to vote on them, putting an end to debates of an ideological nature.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, a couple of the honourable members asked an intriguing question: is it a coincidence that today’s debate should coincide with the hungarian government’s decision? well, sometimes, mr president, you need a small angel at your shoulder. for my own part, i prefer, when you invite me to come, to make clear what is at stake, to be able to come armed with facts and figures. is what has happened today a coincidence? the answer i will give to that comes, in a way, straight from my heart. we are talking about an entire procedure: it started at the end of december and we are now half way through february – so it has taken a bit more than seven weeks. well, in the light of the six years i have been in office in the european institutions, that is quite speedy. my experience so far has been that things are rarely so speedy that i feel we can solve a problem within seven weeks. having said that, the background to today’s outcome is fascinating. we have a combination of factors. firstly, we are not talking about this issue for the first time. you have invited me to discuss it before. you have been quite clear, so there has been no doubt about what is at stake – no doubt about what every party in this house thinks on this question. secondly, we are talking about a very important issue. i do not need to explain to you that the issue of freedom of expression and freedom of the press is what is at stake for the commission; and that it would be ridiculous if we did not make that a top priority with regard to defending democracy. was it a coincidence that the previous item on the agenda this afternoon was the situation in egypt? you have been talking about creating democracy, so there is a clear thread here, and you can be absolutely certain that the commission is aware of that and is, indeed, doing its utmost to defend democracy and to repair it where it may have been attacked. the third issue is, of course, the hungarian presidency. let us not be naive. of course our friends in this member state within the family of europe are aware that, for those in the chair, noblesse oblige. so from their side too there has been an approach of doing their utmost to solve the problem. the final point i would make in this explanation, in so far as i can offer one, is that the european parliament has been crystal clear: you have been fighting and you have been keeping the outside world informed via the press – via a free press, i would add. so do not underestimate your own role. having said that, for me the whole combination of factors is, at the end of the day, the explanation of why we have this result at this point of time. fundamental rights are the issue that has been at stake: there is no doubt about that. anyone who thinks that i am interested only in peace and quiet does not know me in the least, because i am fighting for democracy. i do have a fair bit of experience and i have had a longer life in politics than most of you. let me touch, also, on a couple of the specific issues about which i was asked. what about the independence of the media regulator? our preliminary analysis of the hungarian law concludes that the procedures for nominating and electing the president and members of the media council are no different from those that are commonly accepted in europe. we have to acknowledge – whether it furthers our case or not – that the governing party holds a two-thirds majority, and that, in a democracy, is a simple fact. (applause) on the question of the application of article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights, we are applying the directive – the avms directive – and the treaty, and that implies of course applying article 11 of the charter. so there is no doubt about that. mr moraes said there was no judicial review of decisions by the media authority. a decision by the media council, passed in its capacity as an authority of the first instance, cannot be appealed via an administrative procedure. however, as provided for in article 163, an official decision of the media council may be challenged in court in accordance with the provisions of the code of civil procedure. the lodging of the appeal does not have suspensory effect but the code may be invoked to suspend the execution of the decision. ms weber said that the protection of sources under the hungarian media law is insufficient. if we take press freedom as a basic european principle, that should be the starting point and the ultimate end in all our thinking on this subject. i have always defended press freedom at european level and i will continue – and i promise you the commission will continue – to promote it untiringly. the right of journalists to protect their sources is one of the main principles guaranteeing the effective exercise of press freedom. journalists should never be required to reveal their sources unless it is necessary for them to do so for the purposes of a criminal investigation, and that principle is valid whatever the political climate. in fact, it needs to be defended with more passion whenever the press and the media generally are in a weaker position, as is the case nowadays. the directive on privacy and electronic communications currently in force requires the member states to ensure the confidentiality of communications. however, the directive does not apply to activities which fall outside the scope of the eu treaties. that is to say that eu law does not apply to matters relating to public security, defence, state security or the enforcement of criminal law and, moreover, under the principle of subsidiarity, member states have the possibility of taking measures that could restrict an individual’s right to privacy, in accordance with their own rules and with the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. any such restriction must be necessary, appropriate and proportionate within a democratic society, and a commissioner is not in a position to judge or condemn such national doings, nor do i wish to do so. on the matter of the absence of reference to article 30 – and a number of members have asked about that – i know that many of you have complained that the commission has not taken article 30 fully into account when assessing the media law. i should like to say loudly and clearly: that is simply not true. although in its original proposal for the avms directive the commission had included an obligation on the member states to guarantee the independence of the national regulatory authorities – and i know full well that your memory on such matters is excellent – that provision was not supported by the council and, despite strong support from the european parliament, it was changed into the current article 30 of the avms directive. the final wording of the avms directive does not directly establish an obligation to create independent bodies. it is not what we would have wished but it is what was written down in the text and we have to accept it, albeit with regret. the hungarian authorities have agreed to delete the provision in question and add the following declaratory text to article 10 of the media constitution, and i quote: ‘it is the task for the entirety of the media system to provide authentic, rapid and accurate information on such affairs and events’. so that will be the text after the changes. i have to apologise that you did not receive the text, but i myself did not receive it or, at least, i had only the text that we were negotiating and i could not distribute that to you. however, as soon as it is possible, i will supply you with the text. of course – while i hope you believe what i am saying and i would appreciate that – i imagine that, at the end of the day, you want to see it in writing and have the opportunity to read it. one of the issues that will make sense for you when you are making up your minds is that of the balanced reporting requirements: as i said in my opening remarks, these will no longer apply to the written press or to on-demand audiovisual media services. on the question, which mr løkkegaard asked, of whether i am ready to propose legislation on media pluralism, i said in my opening remarks that i am ready to take action in the matter of media pluralism within the existing eu competences. there is no one-size-fits-all approach: that is clear to me, and the hungarian case has made it even clearer. i will set up the working group to which i referred, and i thank you for your willingness to join it, in order to discuss the challenges we are facing, to make sure we have a comprehensive overview of the situation in europe and, of course, to act accordingly – including on the question of media independence. that should be one of the main priorities. with regard to the position of the osce on the hungarian media legislation, in relation to our own analysis, there is a difference of legal bases, but the osce was quite clear and quite right in its conclusions. the main issues raised by the osce concern the new media authority, in particular the long duration of the term of office of its members and the regulation of the public service broadcaster. i have explained the commission’s point of view here, and i think that the terms of office of members of other broadcasting councils, for example in other member states, range in some cases from five to nine years. one example but it is not the only one, is the rundfunkräte (public broadcasting boards). the crucial thing – and this is my final remark – is the message from the deputy prime minister that i received this morning when i touched down, and i am certain that the minister of foreign affairs will repeat the message that the hungarian government wrote down for me, and for the commission, stating what the position is. during the seven weeks in which we closely cooperated, i had already been impressed by the input of my own staff who had been working like hell. but i can assure you that both sides worked like hell and that they did their jobs not just in the proper way but in a constructive way, in order to find a solution, because this is a very important matter, and we have to find a solution.
mr president, i would ask the commissioner, as a matter of procedure, to send the texts he referred to to the group chairmen at least this evening, so that we can have as much peace of mind as possible before we vote tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, there is a clause in this agreement which does not convince us and has never convinced us. this is the reinstatement of customs duties that korea will receive on imports of products from china or other countries. we've already discussed this: but as a liberal democrat, i think that's a profoundly wrong measure. it is a kind of export subsidy and i would like to see this agreement voted on with the assurance that this clause will not set a precedent and will not be included in any future agreement. the vote tomorrow will conclude part of the joint work, but only a part, because the relationship between the european parliament and the commission will have to continue, also with regard to the effective implementation of the safeguard clause, in respect of which we have no margin for error in the interests of european industry and workers. otherwise we will have great problems in the next agreements. this is the year of the rabbit in the far east, and i wish european industry to run like a rabbit, taking advantage of what this agreement can give it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think it is wrong to turn the discussion of the free trade agreement with korea into a confrontation between supposed neo-protectionists and convinced free traders. i also think it is wrong that the commission has acted more like an agency for the development of the tertiary economy than as the political government of 500 million europeans, which should strike a balance between the reasons for growth on the one hand and for employment and the distribution of wealth on the other. what differentiates us from the united states, which has not yet ratified this agreement - and we know why - also in our relations with korea, is precisely that there is no economic power in the world which exposes its quality manufacturing industry - and i emphasize quality - to inevitable processes of restructuring, sacrificing it on the altar of financial interests, creating a contrast between the white collar workers of the city of london and the white-coat workers of modern european factories, which is the opposite of what europe needs after this crisis. all this, mr sturdy, commissioner, has nothing to do with neo-protectionism. otherwise the spanish, german, polish, portuguese, french and italian ministers of industry would also be considered as such, who in le monde of 10 february reiterated the need to put the community interest back at the centre of the european institutions' efforts and who, in this case, could not be protected by the although very good safeguard clause. we have put in place a very good academic exercise on international trade relations, but we have not done what is in europe's interest: for this reason... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like what we are discussing at this very moment to be another, perhaps final, fatal blow to the economy of our territories. we are already being invaded by low-cost or very low-cost goods, mainly from east and southeast asia. many italian enterprises, especially small and mediumsized ones, are suffering because of unfair competition, which does not allow them to compete on the market, with tragic consequences from the economic and above all employment point of view. this agreement provides for safeguard clauses and various protections: but who is to say that these rules are actually enforced? there are still too many unknowns and the possible advantage for a few large producers cannot always fall on the smaller ones. in my region, tuscany, there is a textile sector - historically a major textile industry - which is already in serious trouble because of asian competition: i would not like europe itself to be the one to give the final blow to this sector, as it probably will to many others, with this agreement. we're not voting for this deal.
the free trade agreement with the republic of korea is described by all as the institutional and strategic innovation of the union. it is an unbalanced agreement which will have a negative effect on european manufacturing. the zeroing of tariffs on korean products against the raising of environmental and social standards in korea cannot be considered fair. the korean shipbuilding industry has benefited from substantial state aid, which has enabled it to hold 30 percent of the world market. the european industry, whether it be the automobile, textile, chemical or other industries, will have to defend itself against competition which, if it is not unfair in form, is unfair in fact. the introduction of the safeguard clause is an appropriate measure but not sufficient to deal with the many weaknesses of the agreement. i therefore call on the european commission to be more cautious if it really wants to defend europe's economic interests.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr kalfin, for his work. today's vote renews the community guarantee covering losses on european investment bank loans for projects outside the european union, a measure which is even more important in today's economic environment, which is characterised by profound changes not only in markets but also in production logic and the way of thinking in the economy. while the eib plays a central role in the union, the european union is also strengthening its political and economic presence beyond the borders of the 27 member states. a compromise was reached with the other political groups to amend the commission's original text. the debate, with due regard for the different opinions, was constructive both within the committee on budgets and in preparation for today's plenary session. the main themes of the discussion and political debate were: support for local small and medium-sized enterprises; optimising synergies in development cooperation, so that different interventions in the global south do not overlap and waste resources; the nature of the eib that it remains an investment bank that lends, competes on international markets and does not lend at a loss; the geographical scope of the eib's investments, which have been extended to countries such as libya and iraq but not to countries such as belarus, where respect for human rights as enshrined in the european declaration of human rights must be a minimum condition for planning intervention. the conditions are all right for parliament's work to be able to obtain the council's and the commission's agreement quickly. the rapporteur will be presenting an oral amendment to the report which provides for an increase in the appropriations for eib operations in the mediterranean region. this intervention will help to stabilise the mediterranean, also in the face of the problems of recent weeks linked to migratory flows. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, limited to what, the whole operation or a particular point?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done on the external mandate of the eib. the role of the union's financial arm is now of great importance in terms of the political commitment that europe wants to convey to the countries of the southern mediterranean. building lasting democratic institutions requires a great deal of effort on the part of the population and europe, which has been working with the eib in these regions for many years, can provide valuable support during this transition period, both in implementing infrastructure and in strengthening local businesses. the report under vote today provides for an increase of almost eur 2 billion in the ceilings with which the bank operates outside the union. this decision will enable the bank to complete important projects which are at risk due to lack of funds but which are at the same time strategic for the stabilization of the mediterranean regions and for the countries which are about to join the union. however, a high level of coordination between the european commission, the new external action service and the european investment bank is important to achieve these objectives. i believe it is of great importance to study joint governance for these three actors in the countries of the union where they operate and i therefore welcome the creation of a platform by the european commission and the eib to study, together with parliament and the council, how best to address the challenges of the union's external policies with financial instruments and innovative methods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report seeks to provide community guarantees for the external financing of the european investment bank. many of the investments supported by the eib are in countries that have been at the centre of historic changes in recent weeks, with authoritarian regimes overthrown by popular uprisings. the report also envisages extending the community guarantees to other countries suspected of having a weak internal democracy. i think it is paradoxical to go in this direction, wondering whether it would not be more useful if the eib increased its investment in europe by, for example, providing more finance to small and mediumsized enterprises, as commissioner tajani himself called for in this house last monday. finally, i can only note with great disappointment the inclusion of turkey among the pre-accession candidate countries. i confirm that we in the northern league will never accept - and i stress this - any compromise in this direction on this and other fronts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in our daily work in parliament we realise that the added value is provided by access to selected information which supports our legislative and policy work. we use external human resources, which provide analysis and insight into the political, social, industrial and business realities. however, politics is made up of decisions and choices, and those remain entirely the responsibility of the politicians. it is about making choices that can be supported by groups of experts with high professional standards, specific levels of competence and able to express their opinions in a balanced way. hence the need to identify effective instruments and transparent procedures which enable the commission to carry out its role with the support of these groups of independent or autonomous experts. we know that this is a very problematic area. the 2010 plan is certainly a significant step forward, but much more needs to be done. the quality and authority of the experts also depend on the degree of their autonomy and the degree of their ability to support political decisions with fairness and loyalty. in the commission as in parliament, however, the mechanisms for publicity, the web and other effective means can be further simplified. so the right of access is good, the right of transparency is good, the right of balance between the right of transparency and what cannot be entrusted and handed over and made recognizable is good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we must once again insist on the primacy of politics. if the policy is credible and competent, the role of the experts is one of advice and support. the decision is in any case up to the one who takes responsibility for it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that last week six important member states of the european union - france, germany, italy, spain, poland and portugal - said that europe must be less naive. the six countries call for a more effective and strategic defence of european external trade, since the existence and development of the european economic and social model are at stake. the six countries point out that the european union has opened up 80 per cent of its market to third countries, while the other major developed economies have only opened up 20 per cent. it is therefore argued that there are asymmetries in foreign trade and that the concept of reciprocity needs to be developed. this has brought many of our small and mediumsized enterprises to their knees, because they are subject to unfair competition which does not allow them to be competitive in the markets. mr president, i come from prato, a town which was once considered one of the most important textile districts in europe. today, because of unfair asian competition, it has become a ghost town, because the work of the prato entrepreneur has been distorted. for all these reasons, we have voted against this agreement.
i voted against the report, mr president, because i find it unacceptable that investment in third countries should be supported instead of being facilitated for the benefit of european small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the most important economic fabric of the union. i am firmly against the inclusion of turkey among the pre-accession candidate countries: i would remind you that turkey is still illegally occupying part of the territory of cyprus, which is a member state of the european union. in addition, there is no guarantee of transparency in the granting of community loans and grants by the eib to third countries. i would remind you that the resources of the eib are contributed by the citizens of europe and that is why priority should be given to investments within europe itself. many of the projects supported by the eib are located in countries where there is fighting and rebellion against various regimes. the report also envisages extending the community guarantees to other countries, such as cuba, which are notoriously lacking in democracy.
mr president, while we voted in favour of the safeguard clause in mr zalba's report, and i thank him again for his excellent work, we regrettably abstained on the trade agreement with korea. we regretfully did so because, while it is true that this agreement opens up a new, important market for the union, paving the way for future new trade agreements with other economic partners of the union, it is also true that many doubts and perplexities remain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in a europe where the rules for the designation of origin of products outside the european union have not yet been defined, we continue to offer privileged import positions for products on european territory, without requiring rules of true equality for businesses and knowledge for the citizens who buy. our abstention confirms that we are in favour of a free market with the necessary guarantees, while we are against the conclusion of trade agreements which do not sufficiently guarantee the rules of competition.
mr president, europe could do many things to support egyptian democracy, and one of the most important would be to look at the events in egypt as part of a genuine wave of democratisation. in the space of a few weeks, a tyranny collapsed, and with it we have seen the collapse of a number of stereotypes such as the theory of a clash of civilisations. no conflict of civilisations whatsoever is occurring in the arab world today – exactly the opposite. egyptian youngsters are putting their lives at risk for the same values that we hold. they are showing that democracy is a universal aspiration and that there are no cultures, religions or civilisations that are against it. nonetheless, an army of sceptics and doomsayers is at work today, diminishing or distorting the meaning of the egyptian transition to democracy. people are engaged in raising all sorts of doubts, describing the latest development as a ‘coup d’état’ as though these events have simply paved the way for an islamic government that will end up in another autocracy. if we want to help the egyptian people, we should be ready to counter these reactionary views of the unfolding of history.
mr president, we will have to bear the damage caused by the financial crisis for a long time to come. the brake on the real economy, which is the result of financial misconduct, must be removed as soon as possible to allow the single market to resume its development. the strategy outlined for 2020 does not seem to us to be the most suitable one to ensure the desired growth. structural obstacles such as weak governance, the intergovernmental approach compared with the community approach, percentage and numerical indications similar to those of the soviet-era five-year plans, programmatic forecasts which never guarantee that they will be achieved, remind me of the many failures we have suffered, not least the lisbon one, without realizing that our absolute priorities must be the creation of jobs and the fight against unemployment. it requires momentum, effort and stimulation, which i regret that i do not find in the proposed strategy. "liberate" should become the operative word: but it is also essential to have rules that prevent monopolies from being created or strengthened and that ensure that the citizens and the economy as a whole benefit from them, rather than some financial or political group that is more aggressive than others.
mr president, the rapid rise in food prices has been a burden on the poor in developing countries, who spend roughly half of their household incomes on food. this calls for an integrated response from the international community. the wholehearted involvement of the eu in issues of global food security is urgently required. the resolution approved today is a first step in the right direction. the resolution states that the right to food is a fundamental human right and makes several useful recommendations. however, we need to go ahead with further proposals. we need to change the aspects of cap international aid policies that are not in line with the task of increasing global food production, in full respect of environmental concerns, food safety and labour standards.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european union trade and investment policy. the free trade agreement with south korea is the first example of a new generation of agreements which aim to reduce trade and non-trade barriers and to broaden investment prospects in the partner country. the agreement was met, from the time of its signing in october 2009, with strong criticism from the european automotive industry, which felt strongly penalized by certain clauses granted to the korean partner duty drawback in particular. the work of the european parliament in the annexed regulation on the safeguard clause attached to the agreement and a clarification by the south korean government on changes to domestic legislation on carbon emissions have also helped to allay some of these concerns and that is why we have today confirmed the vote of the inta committee, to allow the completion of the procedure on which the council has already agreed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during this plenary session parliament expressed its opinion on the eu-korea agreement and voted on the report on the bilateral safeguard clause in the agreement. i am in favour of the latter, and i shall be voting in favour of it. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is known that korea continues to maintain rules containing important plant health restrictions which severely restrict our agricultural producers. it would be useful to update these protection clauses in this respect too, because, while it is true that agricultural trade with korea amounts to some eur 1 billion a year, it is also true that the elimination or at least the limitation of these barriers would enable us to defend our products and our farmers better, who might otherwise be placed in less favourable conditions than the korean ones.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-korea free trade agreement is, in my view, an important instrument to protect european products which are currently facing serious difficulties due to increased imports from korea. this situation, resulting from the entry into force of the eu-korea free trade agreement, should provide for the progressive and complete elimination of all customs barriers bilaterally. i therefore voted in favour of the draft as approval is a necessary condition for the effective entry into force of the agreement, which is scheduled for 1 july. the safeguarding of free trade agreements between the two parties is essential for an increase in european manufacturing.
in writing. - i supported this text because i believe that the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-korea free trade agreement is an effective instrument for defending european products. the entry into force of this agreement next july is expected to create difficulties for the european internal market. the gradual elimination of customs barriers on a bilateral basis will cause a significant increase in imports from korea. i am pleased to note that it will be possible to introduce specific measures even when the increase in imports into europe is concentrated in certain areas only. this measure is in line with italy's request for the introduction of a genuine 'regional safeguard clause', applicable only to certain regions of the eu. closing ourselves off from the international market is not only impossible but also harmful. but this presupposes that any opening up must be balanced and progressive, and that it takes account of the internal needs of the european union. the protection of jobs remains a priority for europe, as does the quality of the products that are marketed, and only by respecting these fundamental parameters will it be possible to build fruitful economic relations for both sides.
in writing. − we are in favour of the bilateral safeguard clause in the eu-korea free trade agreement because it mitigates the harmful effects of the measure. the purpose of this clause is to allow the suspension or re-application of duties if it is found that trade liberalization has caused serious damage to our industrial system. the safeguard clause will only be applicable for a maximum period of 10 years after the customs duties have been abolished. it is clear that the introduction of this clause does not change our position in voting against the text of the free trade agreement, which is still causing serious economic damage to our companies.
in writing. − the european union provides the european investment bank with a budgetary guarantee to cover the political and sovereign risks associated with its lending and guaranteeing activities in support of projects outside the european union. this community guarantee is an effective means of combining the budgetary resources of the union and the eib's own resources, while ensuring that the financial soundness of the eib is not compromised. the eib has already made considerable progress in implementing its mandate: strengthened coordination with the commission and focused its attention on supporting the union's policy objectives. the development of its external action will now have to translate into an increase in the volume of loans, their quality and the diversification of new beneficiaries (local authorities). an additional mandate of eur 500 million dedicated to microcredit financing should be granted without delay to increase access to bank financing for the most disadvantaged in eligible countries. in terms of internal organisation, the eib should be progressively encouraged to allocate all its external activities on a geographical basis in order to better adapt to the specific features of each area and to encourage the participation of partner countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it draws attention to a subject which is often out of the news. in addition to its core mission of financing investment in the european union, the european investment bank undertakes financing operations outside the european union in support of the eu's foreign policy. this allows the eu budget resources available for the external regions to be complemented by the financial strength of the eib, to the benefit of the beneficiary countries. in doing so, the eib contributes to the general guiding principles and policy objectives of the european union, including the development of third countries and the prosperity of the eu in the new global economic environment. the eib's operations in support of the union's foreign policy must continue to be conducted in accordance with the principles of sound banking practice.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european union trade and investment policy. the free trade agreement with south korea is the first example of a new generation of agreements, which are intended to reduce trade and non-trade barriers and to broaden investment prospects in the partner country. the agreement has been met since its signing in october 2009 with strong criticism from the european automotive industry, which felt strongly penalized by certain clauses granted to the korean partner duty drawback in particular. the work of the european parliament in the annexed regulation on the safeguard clause attached to the agreement and a clarification by the south korean government on changes to domestic legislation on carbon emissions have also helped to allay some of these concerns and that is why we have today confirmed the vote of the inta committee, to allow the completion of the procedure on which the council has already agreed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it balanced against the eu-korea free trade agreement. the south korean market, which has so far remained relatively closed due to high tariff and non-tariff barriers, will soon have the opportunity to open up significant new opportunities for eu goods and services. in a very short time, the fta will eliminate the €1.6 billion of export duties imposed annually on eu exporters of industrial and agricultural products, compared with the €1.1 billion applied to south korean exporters. it will now be important to monitor closely the flow of goods from this country so that the safeguard clause can be used in the event of an excessive increase in the flow of goods, which would put european employment at risk.
in writing. - we are strongly opposed to this free trade agreement with korea as it would give undue competitive advantages to korean competitors. for example, korea could easily export cars and european manufacturers would be at a disadvantage because 95% of cars bought in korea are made in the same country. the removal of tariff barriers would be against the interests of our productive areas. the only clause that can be applied to mitigate the disadvantages is one that can lead to emergency measures and, in the event of serious damage to european producers, temporary emergency measures such as the suspension of the reduction of duties.
in writing. - after tunisia, egypt, as the protest spreads across the entire middle east quadrant. in these days when the geopolitical map of the mediterranean is changing and probably the world's balance, it is necessary for the european union to update its foreign policy, revising and improving the strategy to assist, politically and financially, the democratic transition in the country, including the organization of free elections. the european union must mobilise all the instruments of financial assistance and initiatives for democracy and human rights to help the egyptian people. similarly, the situation in the mediterranean, and particularly on the italian coast, where four thousand landings were recorded in just four days, must be monitored. these figures are reminiscent of the exodus in the 1990s, when the carts of the sea brought to the shores of the adriatic hordes of disinherited people from albania. the declaration of a state of emergency by the italian government seems to me an important and necessary decision, but it is only the first step because the real fear is that after tunisia, it could affect egypt and algeria. a problem that italy alone cannot be able to sustain: it is therefore up to the whole of europe to study countermeasures, to intervene directly, to give hope at home to those who want to take the wave of emotion that is spreading in the countries of the maghreb.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in egypt can be described as epochal, that is to say, the disintegration of a certain model of policy which has permeated the whole country for twenty years. this has unfortunately come at the expense of a large number of people who have been injured or killed in the name of the freedom they so dearly desire. with this motion for a resolution parliament wishes to express its solidarity with the egyptian people and to commend the courage and determination of the young people, who have played a role, which is certainly crucial, this month. with the resignation of president mubarak, egypt is now a free country, but it needs to be rebuilt. the european parliament intends to be able to help them by making appeals, such as the possibility of starting as soon as possible a dialogue between the political forces to find the best way of combating corruption and the violation of the principles of freedom of expression and freedom of information, so that the basis for a state governed by the rule of law can be laid. we also call on the high representative to promote the creation of a task force, with the help of parliament, to help build a new reality consistent with the principles of a democratic state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt in order to give a full voice to a european parliament which, in line with the statements made by the high representative ashton and presidents van rompuy and barroso, welcomes the courage of the egyptian people, with whom it is in solidarity. the eu will now be responsible for monitoring the situation and seeking to support political dialogue through the neighbourhood policy, in order to ensure a transition to democracy and free elections while avoiding a fundamentalist drift. egypt plays a key role in the management of the middle east peace process, a role which the army during the democratic transition promised to continue to play while respecting the balances and stability of the region. i also believe that the eu must take action to protect itself against potential mass exodus from the north african coast by helping egypt by all means necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because of the enormous importance which the recent demonstrations in various arab countries in north africa and the middle east have had in the institutional, political and economic change in the area. the winds of reform have once again blown on the wave of a strong popular demand for freedom and genuine democracy, the basis for achieving better living conditions for all citizens. the promotion of respect for democracy, human rights and civil liberties is a fundamental objective of the european union and represents the common ground for the development of the euro-mediterranean area. the priority now will be to re-establish a government which is the direct expression of the egyptian people through free elections, capable of facing with international support the transition phase towards a full democracy, where the coptic christian communities are no longer victims of current events and all religious communities can live in peace and freely profess their faith throughout the country.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 3 of the teu recognises territorial cohesion as one of the objectives of the eu. the joint motion for a resolution voted on today in parliament calls for this principle to be applied to the danube region as well. the 14 eu member states that are part of this region include germany, but also romania and bulgaria, and it is for these countries in particular that we call for the effective application of the principle enshrined in article 3. as early as 2008, parliament had loudly called for the council and the presidency of the council to decide on a strategic plan to provide and implement aid to the region, so as to provide it with the much-needed input to enjoy a strong economy independent of other donors. three years later, we are calling for a policy that is committed to supporting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. we call for the promotion of the most disadvantaged areas whose development would bring an improvement in environmental and social conditions. my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution is nothing but a small gesture towards a region which needs european help and for which we cannot back down.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the many considerations surrounding the implementation of this strategy, i have personally decided to vote in favour, especially in view of the fact that the danube region, comprising 14 european countries and some 115 million inhabitants, is an area in which it is possible to develop enhanced synergies between various eu policies, in the fields of cohesion, transport, the economy, energy, the environment, enlargement and neighbourhood policy. i therefore believe that this strategy should combine economic, environmental, social and cultural elements, since a macro-region such as the danube would significantly increase the economic well-being of the entire european community, fostering employment and promoting integrated development. i therefore believe that the unifying and integrating character of this strategy expresses the conviction of all the member states of the union that it makes an important contribution to overcoming the old divisions in europe, to the overall success and greater efficiency of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the danube region, which comprises 14 european countries and 115 million inhabitants, must be managed through a shared collective plan, which allows for its economic and cultural development in a way that preserves its invaluable artistic and environmental beauties. member states will now have to use the structural funds available for 2007-13 to ensure maximum support for this strategy. the commission will continue to work on the implementation of the new guidelines, which will be adopted by the council in december. if the danube strategy is backed up by a strong political commitment, then it can help to overcome the old divisions in europe and take a further step towards the real integration of the peoples. successful implementation of the plan will have positive repercussions in a much wider geographical context, enhancing its strategic location as europe's gateway to the western balkans.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in view of the eu-russia consultations on human rights and the eu's continued commitment to deepening and further developing eu-russia relations, in accordance with democratic principles and fundamental rights, i am convinced that russia remains an important partner for the european union, in line with the further development of cooperation between the countries. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that intensifying the negotiations and the new partnership agreements with russia renews the broad agreement of the member states towards democracy and the proper functioning of the judicial system. i would also stress that full respect for human rights and the rule of law would improve russia's image and credibility on the world stage, with particular reference to its relations with the european union, by virtue of a strategic partnership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe it is capable of strengthening the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. 80% of foreign investment in russia comes from europe, so a strengthening of this partnership would help europe to implement a more competitive policy in all areas of activity. on the energy side, over 45% of gas and 29.9% of oil are imported from russia, without which half of europe's cooking and heating systems would stop working. given the shared interests in the economic, energy and security fields, a new partnership agreement with the kremlin would provide greater stability for the european economy in the wake of the recent financial crisis. the resolution also encourages russia, as a member of the council of europe, to commit itself to fully respecting european standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. adopting a shared and coherent policy for the promotion of human rights would be a step forward in the reaffirmation of human rights throughout the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because access to modern energy services is a fundamental requirement for poverty eradication and economic development, and the right to energy means that energy services are reliable, affordable, particularly for the poor, and evenly distributed in order to bridge the gap between urban and rural areas. the world bank's energy strategy is moving in this direction, and it must do more to lift people out of poverty while facilitating the transition to an environmentally sustainable energy-based development path. the world bank must therefore pursue an approach to private sector development that maximizes the benefits to the poor while addressing climate change.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe 2020 is nothing more than the plan of all the measures that the european union must take to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people living in poverty or at risk of poverty. this ambitious objective is the guiding principle of the eu's economic activity. this, of course, involves responsible action to change the economic strategy of the member states, but first all the european institutions must work together on a single project. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. these requirements stem from the need to prepare, together with the eib and the ebrd, a package of initiatives in the fields of energy, food security, climate change, health, youth policy, research and, above all, industrial policy aimed at creating strong social protection systems and reducing the unemployment rate.
in writing. − the need to overcome the economic crisis, to ensure sustainability and to develop a 'smart economy' are the key objectives of the strategy which will outline the future framework of the eu market economy. high levels of employment that promote social and territorial cohesion, productivity, resource efficiency, innovation and, above all, stronger economic governance will have to be the foundation of the new european path. the commission's work, the commission's assessments and proposals and parliament's political orientation will have to lead to concrete conclusions in the coming years. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the europe 2020 strategy, which will complement the initial draft by stressing the need to strengthen the governance projects of the strategy, urging member states to give greater budgetary consideration to the ambitions of the strategy and to focus on combating unemployment through national reform programmes.
in writing. - europe is facing a major challenge: reducing unemployment and at the same time building a 'man-sized' economy. we are aware that the ambition of the europe 2020 strategy is high and requires firmness at both national and european level. the world economic crisis has unfortunately undermined much of what has been achieved so far, demonstrating how often national economies are too fragile. that is why we must now, more than ever, strengthen our commitment, with the principle 'we are stronger together'! no member state must and can effectively address global challenges by acting alone. the challenge of sustainable growth needs to be taken up with all the political and financial instruments at our disposal. i voted in favour of this resolution because we need to coordinate more closely the employment policies of the member states, and this can only be achieved if the common objectives are coherent and credible. we must build a new economic model, based on knowledge and high levels of employment. this is a challenge which requires us to embark on a new phase of european integration, with greater attention to employment and social security issues, and to mobilise all the forces present in europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the commission communication on 'annual growth analysis: making progress in the eu's overall response to the crisis', parliament, including myself, voted in favour of a resolution which aims to encourage the council and the commission to work together to achieve the employment objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the rapporteur, pervenche berès, believes that policy advice should be given to the member states without interfering too much in national policy and that guidelines should be provided so that all those concerned can move towards the same project. the problem of unemployment, especially in recent years, is a serious one and must be tackled with a bit of ambition to ensure that by 2020 75% of european citizens are guaranteed a decent, safe and adequate job for the needs and diverse types of people entering the world of work, with particular attention to those types of categories to which women - mothers in particular - young people and immigrants belong.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these years of recovery from the economic and financial crisis which has hit many of the countries of the union, in which our governments are working to implement common policies and strategies to achieve the objectives which we have all identified and decided to pursue together, i believe it is important to recognise the right and proper centrality of parliament as the most representative institution of the european union. it is a question of recognizing its representativeness and its function also in relation to what is enshrined in the treaties. the importance of the guidelines for economic and employment policies must certainly be at the heart of the european semester, and they must be adapted to changes in the annual assessment of growth and to the timing of implementation in our countries. the advisory function deserves the right space and the right time for analysis and adaptation to the overall framework. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i would like to express my concern about the current situation in the world of work. i believe that unemployment is the real social problem of our time. despite the good signs of recovery at the macroeconomic level, industry will not be able to absorb all the workers it has laid off in recent months and who are facing difficulties in reintegrating into the market, as well as young people and women. these are matters of the utmost importance and urgency. in the 2020 strategy, the commission identified the promotion of employment, the strengthening of the single market and the encouragement of growth as priority objectives. the european union and this parliament in particular have done well in addressing this problem, but concrete action is needed to achieve these goals. the european union must work to channel and rationalise its resources by investing in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure: the breakthrough in this regard will be the creation of project companies guaranteed and financed by project bonds. this will help to maintain the union's competitiveness on the world market and to open up new employment opportunities for its citizens. it will have to be done, step by step, in the shortest possible time.
in writing. - i have opposed this report on member states' employment policies for one main reason, namely that it takes up and incorporates the guidelines already adopted by this house last september, which would provide for easier access to employment for the roma population. i agree with the idea of promoting access to the labour market for disabled people, young people, the elderly and women, but i really cannot see on what basis special facilities should be granted to a particular (and very problematic) ethnic group such as the roma.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs berès' report because, if the text is adopted, the member states will have to present their initiatives and guidelines on employment levels for 2010 by april 2011 in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the european commission's proposal to give effect as early as 2011 to the 2010 guidelines on member states' labour policies is fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy and supported by the european parliament through this report. the european union is therefore calling on all the member states to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment, by putting forward constructive proposals and setting precise deadlines for dealing with the problem of employment and poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs berès' report because i agree with the content of the report on the policies to be adopted to promote employment in the eu. the new integrated guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy should be fully reflected in the policy measures and initiatives of the member states. the commitment of each member state to maintain the targets to be achieved by 2014 will be crucial. unemployment, especially youth unemployment, remains one of the objectives which requires the greatest effort to tackle it at its root, because it reduces not only the immediate spending capacity but also all future investment strategies, causing very serious social disadvantages which go beyond purely economic factors. not only the quantity of jobs, but also their quality must be increased, and this is a matter for the member states in particular, who must also continue their efforts to combat poverty and support social inclusion.
in writing. the food price index on financial markets shows that prices have risen uncontrollably in recent months, due to the international economic and financial crisis and also to the recent ecological disasters caused by climate change. but what makes this situation even worse is the speculative behaviour which has contributed up to 50% to the rise in prices, preventing many people from enjoying food security and generating, especially in the poorer countries, political instability, which, as we know, will eventually threaten the peace and security of other countries. food security is a fundamental human right, which is reiterated in the millennium development goals, as well as in the cap. the european union is therefore obliged to affirm its commitment to the creation of a sound policy of agricultural and rural development, its support for research and technological innovation in order to improve productivity, in compliance with the criteria of energy efficiency and sustainability. sustainability also means promoting the production and marketing of traditional local food products, offering appropriate financial incentives and the possibility of access to credit for smes. i also think it is important to adopt clear and transparent regulations, to prevent speculation, especially at the expense of the health of many european citizens, and to make european agricultural production competitive.
in writing. − climate change and speculation in commodity markets are among the main factors threatening food security, both inside and outside the eu. it is with this conviction that i support the resolution calling for urgent measures to combat the manipulation of food prices and to ensure that agricultural production is maintained in the eu. there is no doubt that droughts, floods, fires and storms - occurring more frequently than in the past - are reducing agricultural production capacity around the world. proper soil and water management is therefore essential to prevent the loss of arable land. it is also necessary to combat abusive speculation on the markets for foodstuffs, agricultural raw materials and energy. food security requires a strong policy that secures a future for our farmers and encourages the introduction of more effective and sustainable farming practices in the least developed countries.
in writing. − rising food prices are also causing difficulties for the eu. the steady increase over the past few months has reached figures never recorded before by fao. this is due to a whole host of factors, the lack of a global trade agreement, the rise in the prices of certain raw materials and the increased demand for food, but also to speculation and 'financial games' carried out on other markets but which have repercussions on the global market. in addition, there is the contrast between developed and developing economies, where the latter, hard but indirectly affected by the crisis, use food as the only weapon at their disposal. this situation has not only affected the global market but also small producers and consumers who are faced with increases, even large increases, in basic necessities. i therefore believe that food security is a priority which must be defended and pursued and that it is necessary and proper to seek a solution to this instability which is as comprehensive as possible and which is shared by all.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it strongly condemns the increase in the food price index, which in recent months has reached the highest level in 20 years, causing social emergencies such as the riots which have been rocking the whole of the maghreb since december. the increase in the cost of food is causing a sharp decline in the standard of living for the masses of workers, for whom food expenditure normally constitutes 50% of the household budget. in the european union alone, some 80 million people still live below the poverty line, many of them assisted by food aid programmes. the poor harvests in america, the natural disasters in russia and brazil, the rise in energy and oil prices, the ageing of the agricultural sector - these are the problems that must be tackled without further delay. it is more important than ever to condemn speculation and to study the possibility of a european food storage system to cope with crises such as the one we are experiencing. the aim is to seek shared collective strategies to respond promptly to the increase in demand for food, including through specific incentive policies that bring young people closer to the agricultural world.
mr president, the resolution on border clashes between thailand and cambodia condemns the armed conflict and urges both countries to stop fighting, reduce tensions and accept the mediation of asean and the united nations. we are dealing with a totally unjustified conflict. in 1976, as asean members, cambodia and thailand signed the treaty of amity and cooperation, which commits them to rejecting the use of force in relations between member states and to the peaceful settlement of interstate disputes. the conflict is unreasonable, also, because the international court of justice ruled in 1962 that the temple of preah vihear, close to where the fighting is occurring, belongs to cambodia. there are many reasons to believe that the armed clash is linked to nationalist fervour in thailand, steered by elements in the government which are provoking the fighting to curry favour with hardline voters with a view to this year’s elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak, hundreds of prisoners are crowding yemeni prisons awaiting the execution of their death sentences. i believe that this debate should call for greater attention and a more rapid commitment on the part of the european institutions. the continuing violation of the international convention on human rights is an issue on which europe cannot remain silent or absent, especially in relation to a country like yemen, with which we have economic relations and which inevitably require us to pay close attention to. it is clear that in the western world, in europe, the re-education function is an important, fundamental aspect of punishment. the death penalty has absolutely no re-educational function and that is why we must act with the utmost firmness and determination and make our voice heard in this regard.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of david kato calls for a strong and decisive condemnation by the european institutions. we must not forget, however, that this act of violence is only one episode in a wider story, that of the discrimination suffered in various parts of the world by minorities, whether cultural, ethnic or religious. only a few weeks ago, in an urgent resolution, we condemned what happened to the coptic christians in alexandria, egypt, who were cruelly murdered simply because they wanted to profess their faith freely and respectfully. beyond gay rights, uganda is an extremely vulnerable country, a victim of financial speculation by some powers interested in profiting from the weakness of this country. the european union must therefore pay attention to uganda so that it can benefit from our capacity to promote democracy and civil rights in non-eu countries as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr podimata's report contains many important aspects which are not confined to the question of the financial transaction tax. it is a report full of analysis and proposals and i hope that it will be widely supported by this parliament. it is the possible basis for a genuine new european tax policy, which is needed. if we are talking about tax harmonization, there are proposals in this report too which go in the direction of tax harmonization which gives new strength and new subjectivity to europe, but it is clear that at the moment the debate is focused mainly on the financial transaction tax to be applied as a first step at european level. i believe that this is the time for courageous choices, which must be applied in a balanced way, but which must point the way. i believe that europe has the task of showing the way at global level, i believe that this parliament has the task of giving a signal and a political message. i would like to say one thing to mr schmidt, whose intelligence and lucidity i greatly respect: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. this is not just the proposal of the socialists. in my country, italy, this proposal is also supported by many autonomous and independent associations, it is also supported by the catholic and democratic movement for development and balanced growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that today's subject is a fundamental one, because it concerns not only financial taxation but also an important market issue. through eurobonds we distinguish between eurobonds and project bonds the time has come to develop and drive our economy through that fund called project bonds, in particular the transeuropean infrastructure in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors, accompanied by research and innovation. we must be the driving force in these areas: that's the key theme today, and that's the change of pace. when we talk about the community method, which we are filling our mouths with here, this is an opportunity to fill our mouths with content. unemployment is the real social problem of today, this is our job today. when we tax, either taxes are distributed globally or if we tax only in europe, in my view we make our companies less competitive. when we are going to increase, in addition to being difficult to apply because we would like to target only those who speculate, but we will not be able to do so, we will not be able to do so because it is difficult to apply and we must do so at the level of the g20, this is our way. then, on the application of taxes as regards carbon, i believe that they should not be increased but regulated.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is fascinating on the ethical, political and even technical level. the problem is you can't do it on a segmented field: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not here to defend speculators or those who have gambled on the financial markets as if they were in a casino, but on the other hand we cannot take measures which are a little bit demagogic and which in practice would cause more damage than we want to prevent. let us therefore avoid reasoning on purely ideological grounds and look at the reality of the facts. we all agree that financial speculation must be stopped for its own sake and that the polluter must pay principle must be established, but to do this we must set up a discourse based on certain data, numbers and statistical analysis. a solution must be found which takes account of the need to block a certain kind of speculation, and to prevent the eu from falling behind in the global market, which would create even more problems at a time when we need to invest and try to overcome the crisis.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a regulation is intended to incorporate some of the recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) in order to help improve legal certainty and at the same time to be an important step towards simplification. to date, the recommendations adopted by the gfcm have been transposed into community legislation on a provisional basis, through annual regulations on fishing opportunities. the permanent nature of this recommendation, however, requires a more stable legal instrument for their transposition into community law. therefore, those recommendations should be transposed by a single legislative act to which future recommendations may be added by amending that legislative act. as regards the content of the recommendations adopted by the gfcm, title ii (technical measures) of the proposed regulation lays down certain restrictions on fishing within the gulf of lion as regards the fishing nets that can be used (article 5), the granting of licences for viable fishing activities and the protection of natural habitats. in addition, vessels authorised to participate in the fishing for lamprey are issued with a special fishing permit and included in a list provided to the commission by the member state (article 13). as regards fishing gear, the proposal for a regulation details the minimum mesh size of nets in the mediterranean (article 15) and the black sea (article 16) and prohibits the use of towed dredges and trawls at a depth of more than 1000 metres (article 17). title iii was entitled 'control measures'. among these is that each member state is required to send the european commission, via the usual computer support, an updated list of vessels of more than 15 metres in overall length, flying its flag and registered in its territory, authorised to fish in the gfcm area (article 18). the second chapter deals with measures concerning the port state. the scope of application covers third country vessels which may be subject to controls and inspections for landing and transhipment operations (article 21). in addition, member states shall not allow a third country vessel to use their ports if the vessel does not fly the flag of a cfp contracting party, if the vessel has engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities or if the vessel does not have a valid fishing authorisation (article 23). title iv (cooperation, information and reporting) of the proposed regulation provides for cooperation and exchange of information between the european commission and the member states and the executive secretary of the gfcm (article 24) and for the member states to transmit to the executive secretary of the gfcm statistical data (ship registration number, capacity, tonnage, horsepower, etc.) within the prescribed time limits. as regards the provisions of title v (final provisions), in particular article 28, it allows the commission, with the consent of the european parliament and of the council, to amend, by means of delegated acts, provisions which are not essential to the legislative act in question, in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. furthermore, it is noted that the cgpm contracting parties have an obligation to ensure full implementation of the agreed measures as from the date set by the cgpm itself. timely transposition is therefore necessary in order to make such international measures directly applicable to natural or legal persons at community level and to ensure legal certainty in that respect. however, the co-decision procedure, because of its length, seems to be over-stretched in this particular case with regard to the issues at stake in the transposition of the amendments to the provisions of article 28, which i consider to be non-essential and which, before being proposed or adopted at the annual session of the gfcm, have already been discussed and agreed with the member states, both in working groups in the council and on the spot at the same session. the fact that the european union is unable to ensure this transposition of community law within the time limit may be considered a breach of its international commitments. this, in turn, could undermine the credibility of the european union in the context of the gfcm and other international fisheries management organisations. this is not a good service to the european union and would certainly provide further evidence to the union's detractors, who might suspect that the european union is wasting time on small things instead of concentrating on the more substantial issues. finally, it is crucial to note that important safeguard mechanisms are built into the system of delegated acts, such as the possibility for the two co-legislators, the parliament and the council, to object to specific acts adopted by the commission on the basis of the delegated powers and the possibility to revoke the delegation entirely if they are not satisfied with the way in which these powers are used by the commission. i therefore think that article 28 on delegated acts is a good compromise which will be discussed with the council at second reading in order to reach a final agreement. this reasoning is in line with the report by ms bairbre de brún on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 998/2003 on the animal health requirements applicable to non-commercial movements of pet animals and the report by mr romeva on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that this measure will bring the mediterranean issues to an even more urgent stage than the acts we have already carried out. i believe that the act we are now adopting is much more important than the effects of the 2006 community regulation. i think this also meets some of the limitations of that regulation which, being unilateral, has left large fisheries sectors often supporting the idea that yes, europe is doing its part, but the other coastal countries are not. i think it is strategic for us to tackle the issue at this scale and with these characteristics. the work done by mr rivellini, which has been very well received, deserves, i think, a formal thank you from this house. however, i have the distinct feeling that the fact that we are unable to resolve this question at first reading and will come to a second reading, especially on the interpretation of article 28 of this regulation, raises a question: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. parliament is basically saying that it is good that these delegated acts are in the hands of the commission and there is some resistance from the council, by the way, the absence today is also a significant absence. this act has given parliament a strong feeling that preserving biodiversity and maintaining the fish stocks of this important sea is also the future of fishermen. that said, i think that the stage we are now entering must be one in which the idea of codecision is again at the centre. these delegated acts have their own reason for being delegated and therefore conferred on the commission today, but international agreements must maintain its role in parliament when they do take place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the rapporteur's view that the fisheries regulation should be simplified by means of a regulation which would incorporate the recommendations adopted by the committee on fisheries in the mediterranean. i share the objectives and principles of the common fisheries policy, but i believe that a fair balance must be struck in all coastal member states between socioeconomic value and the protection of ecosystems. i believe that the special interests of local communities must also be protected. this regulation lays down the details of the gear permitted for fishing in the waters of the gfcm area, in particular the mediterranean. i would point out that the objective of safeguarding our natural habitats has serious implications for some fishing communities. italy is awaiting a derogation from the commission's de facto ban on fishing for two particular species which are the main product of a large marine industry. in conclusion, i would like to call on all the representatives of the 27 member states and the commission to consider whether it would be appropriate to make these instruments less rigid in the face of the survival needs of a local fisheries sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we have two problems, one of method and the other of substance in this matter. the method is that we are using a device - and we thank mr fraga for it - that of the oral question, to talk about something which should, after the treaty of lisbon, be a right of this parliament. i think that this practice must be stopped. we cannot use a strategy to accompany a codecision process. the co-decision is such when it is cultivated in the stages in which it matures. today we have this debate, it ends, the treaty goes ahead and we say yes or no at the end. this method needs to be converted. on the substance, however, i only wanted to emphasize, and i agree with many of my colleagues, the measurement of the effects of fisheries agreements, because these are not just trade agreements through which we go to mauritania to buy cephalopods at 1 euro per kilo. they need to be able to measure both sustainability and, above all, the impact on the economy of that country, to understand how many jobs are changing, to understand what the rate of innovation is for artisanal fishing, to understand the use of these resources. it is not just a simple trade deal, but a fisheries agreement with all its implications.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the bluefin tuna fishery in the mediterranean is still causing incalculable economic damage to fishermen. the italian government, in accordance with the decisions of iccat, reduced the fishing quotas for bluefin tuna for professional fishing vessels only, in effect increasing the quantities allocated to sport fishing. this is an absurd measure which only penalizes fishermen who are already in a difficult situation. in this connection, i would like to remind you of the negative effects on the sector of the failure to grant a derogation for the whiting fishery. i hope that at the meeting in the next few days commissioner damanaki, who is here today, will allow the fishing for whitefish to resume in 2011 at least in the defined areas, such as schiavonea and corigliano calabro in calabria, with a possible review for 2012.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that what has happened in the middle east has made it clear to the european institutions that we cannot continue to ignore the violation of fundamental rights and national constitutions. once again, despite myself, i must denounce a shameful initiative by the majority that governs italy and that would like to save berlusconi from the trials that have just begun for very serious crimes, such as concussion and exploitation of child prostitution. the italian majority is asking the constitutional court to decide which court will judge berlusconi. the constitutional court will certainly reject the request for an ad personam judge, but we must not continue to ignore berlusconi's yet another attack on italian democracy and the independence of the italian judiciary. many colleagues have already signed a petition to send a strong signal to the italian people from the european parliament. that is a curious coincidence, mr. president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. perhaps you are afraid of facing the uncomfortable questions of the people's representatives about italian justice and the way they are trying to destroy its independence?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my colleague, mrs schaldemose, on the constructive and fruitful cooperation we have had. the point i would like to make here is the one i introduced in the itre committee's opinion, which mr schaldemose - and i thank you again - shared and took up in his report, namely the request to the european commission to consider the use of new technologies and materials, such as the use of microchips or radio frequencies, to enable better product identification, thus respecting consumer safety and at optimized costs. this would provide complete traceability, since the consumer would be able to know all the aspects of the product, including the various stages of processing, the origin of the materials and the identity of the responsible parties. it would also eliminate the problem of identifying a criterion for the attribution of the origin and the 'made in' of a product. in fact, it is for this very reason that we have seen that to call a product 'made in france' when only the last stage of processing has taken place in this country is a way of deceiving the consumer. i therefore strongly urge the commissioner to act on this request from the european parliament, which is certainly speaking on behalf of the citizens and consumers of europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the member states and the european institutions have taken a number of costly and, in many cases, disproportionate measures to deal with the real gravity of the h1n1 influenza. in europe, the european centre for disease prevention and control estimates that the h1n1 flu caused about 2,900 deaths in 2009. these figures, which are significantly lower than official estimates of deaths caused by seasonal influenza alone, are a testament to the moderate severity of this virus influenza. i therefore urge the utmost attention to be paid to this problem so that the who will review, as soon as possible, a new definition of the criteria used for a global pandemic alert, which takes into account not only the geographical spread of the disease but also its virulence. moreover, from the analysis of the eu's handling of the h1n1 crisis, it seems clear to me that there is a need for increased cooperation between the health authorities of the member states and the european institutions. finally, since i believe that studies on vaccines and antiviral drugs independent of pharmaceutical companies are indispensable to the success or failure of a trial, i fully support the rapporteur's request that the names of all the experts consulted by the european public health authorities be made public.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, health inequalities still persist in the european union today, linked to access to services, care and social factors, which require an integrated response. the reasons for these differences are, in many cases, avoidable and unjust, because they are due to discriminatory elements such as a reduced economic capacity of individuals. i believe that reducing health inequalities must become a key priority for europe with a 'health in all policies' approach, enhancing the quality of access to care for all. in the coming months, the european parliament will discuss the revision of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. it is the right opportunity to arrive at a strengthened mechanism capable of dealing with emergencies in a comprehensive manner without any discrimination.
in writing. health inequalities within the european union are a fact and must be addressed. differences also exist within each member state between the elderly, immigrants, the unemployed and the less well off. the right to health and necessary care must be guaranteed to all of them. citizens should be guaranteed easy access to all health information, including through new information and communication technologies, and reimbursement of costs incurred: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is not affected by the economic hardship. in this specific area, the simplistic approach to abortion, which is seen as a contraceptive or curative measure, and which is always necessary, is of concern. a woman who is forced to terminate a pregnancy is often alone and without adequate means, frightened by a choice that confronts her with one of the primary issues of her existence. for this reason, rather than relegating the termination of pregnancy to the role of a guaranteed contraceptive measure, i prefer that adequate structures be made available to ensure that all women receive care, support, specific social and welfare policies that help them to overcome, where possible, the causes that lead to the choice of abortion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for europe to strike a fair balance between the need to support a fundamental sector, namely the agriculture of the member states, and the need to strengthen europe's international trade policy. a commercial strategy strongly geared to the dynamics of global markets would end up sacrificing the competitiveness of the european agricultural sector. this not only damages the sector's economy, with a heavy impact on employment, but also jeopardizes any prospect of development in our rural areas. it is necessary to defend the quality of agricultural products and to require that, in drawing up trade agreements with third countries, equal quality standards be maintained in terms of food safety, human and animal health and welfare and social rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner lewandowski, i would first like to congratulate mr fernandes on his excellent work. it is not easy to talk about the budget and the management of the institutions' resources, especially when we are trying to combine the improvement of the functioning of the institutions with the need for economies of scale which the member states and the european union must face in a delicate context such as the present one. for this reason, i fully agree with the call for the principles of legislative excellence and sound financial management to be the reference points for the activities of all the institutions. and in fact, at a time of crisis when our primary objective can only be to revive the european economy, the first example of virtuosity must come from the institutions. virtuosity must not mean mere austerity, but increased administrative efficiency, in order to ensure a correct and better use of resources, which will enable all the institutions to carry out an effective and at the same time efficient work, capable of achieving the primary objectives which european action has set itself in recent years. turning more specifically to parliament's budget, i agree with the rapporteur that the 2012 budget should be a consolidation budget, also taking into account that it can be the basis on which to base our opinion, rather than the current discussion on the future multiannual financial framework. i think, however, that some of the resources should be used to implement some of the necessary improvements so that members can carry out their duties with the help of quality services. i therefore believe that savings should be made in the common services, but that further efforts should also be made in the field of housing policy, by rationalising the space already available to us and by adopting a medium- and long-term strategy which makes it possible to plan expenditure on housing well in advance and to make the choices made in this direction more transparent and rational.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a period of general economic constraints, it would be an essential task for the european institutions to be the first to set a good example. this report rightly focuses on compliance with the criteria of efficiency, cost and service management, and i wonder whether there is no need for an immediate and real check on the effectiveness of certain outsourced activities. i am referring in particular to the information technology and internal security of parliament, also in the light of the latest events which we are all well aware of, i am referring to the robbery at the post office last month. a further point must necessarily be made about the european external action service. theoretically created at zero cost to reduce waste and make the european union's external relations more effective, it is proving to be a failure on both political and economic fronts. i would not like the european parliament to accept any concessions in this area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr fernandes for his work and for his focus on the possible savings that can be made in the expenditure of our administration. the two main areas of administrative expenditure are staff and buildings, as the report clearly shows. taking into account the future accession of croatia to the european union and the future needs for staff, it will be necessary and appropriate to govern staff processes, especially through mobility. while this choice of human resources policy allows for greater flexibility, it also requires greater training for eu staff. as regards the building policy, the text expressly mentions the principle of centralisation. the policy of strictness which we are applying to the budgets, starting with those of the member states, will also have to make us reflect in the medium term on the appropriateness of the three seats of parliament, a subject which is certainly complex but which cannot be avoided.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the debate and i can assure you that the bureau's proposal is characterized by rigour, transparency and sound administration. i would like to stress three points in particular. first point: the increase in the rate of inflation proposed by us is not higher than the average rate of inflation in the european union. second point: i share your concerns and we are working towards a far-sighted and forward-looking policy on housing, security and staff. third point: the increase of eur 1 500 was decided and put in reserve by the committee on budgets. the committee on budgets has released the reserve; it is not money that goes into the pockets of members - it is good to clear the field of this misunderstanding and this falsehood - but it goes to assistants who will help members to perform better their duties under the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of international women's day, we are voting on two reports which deal with the issue of women being marginalised and excluded from society. women are traditionally more at risk of poverty, especially single mothers and women over 65. among the five objectives proposed by the european commission in the eu 2020 strategy is the fight against poverty, which makes mr plumb's report extremely timely, especially from the point of view of gender policies in the light of the economic and financial crisis. the vulnerability of women exposes them to the risk of poverty, social exclusion and consequently loneliness, and this calls for the institution we represent to intervene and put in place concrete strategies and programmes. i also congratulate mrs nedelcheva on a good report which promotes equality between men and women in the european union. the representation of women in the public sector, as in the private sector, is very low compared to that of men. in the economic sector, the figures are even less positive: women represent only 10% of the board members of the main european listed companies and 3% of the executives on these boards. i therefore support the introduction of the pink quota to increase the participation of women in the public and private sectors, and education, above all, should be supported, because it plays a decisive role in preventing teachers from directing their pupils in childhood towards professional paths and in accordance with gender stereotypes. i'll close with a quote from one of america's first female mayors: "women have to work twice as hard to get half the credit that men get". i conclude by saying that, fortunately, for us women, it is not difficult.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask mr lulling a very simple question. do you not think that because of positions like yours and therefore positions that come from a woman, the equality between men and women in 2011 is still slowed down because of these positions that you are so keen to tell us today?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i thank the rapporteurs and i dedicate this 8 march to the women of north africa and the middle east, as well as to the many women who are demonstrating in cairo and iran at this moment and who are fighting for democracy and freedom in their countries. i hope that the european commission's external action will also play a strong role in this, in order to establish links with these women. there is a great awakening, also in europe, of women's participation, starting with the demand for respect for the dignity of women in the media and in the behaviour of men in the institutions, as one million italian women said in the squares on 13 february, together with many men who were aware. as regards the reports under discussion, i would point out that there is a strong link between the increasing precariousness of the working and living conditions of young women, despite their being better educated and more competent, the inadequate protection of the maternity of atypical workers, who are the majority of young women, the shortcomings in active conciliation policies, with the lowest rates of female employment, the greater number of women and girls in poverty and the lower level of their pensions and therefore exclusion from decision-making powers. i agree with commissioner reding on his initiative on the board of directors, i disagree less with the initiative on insurance, which risks penalising women above all. without this there will be no europe 2020.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on this day i would like to dedicate a special tribute to all the women who fight every day for their rights in modern society, to all the women who choose to have a child knowing that this will make it difficult for them to reconcile their working life with their new role as mothers, to all the women who, aware of their talents and abilities, decide to go on their own way despite the many obstacles. that is why i am in favour of the mandatory introduction, at least initially, of pink quotas as a means of breaking with a culture that favours only the male component. i am convinced that this would be an opportunity which many young people have been waiting for and which, with their professional skills and cultural background, they would not want to miss. i have a baby girl of a few months and i have a dream: i hope that my daughter victoria will not have to struggle as we are doing to bring down these glass ceilings, and that female talent will no longer be recognized as a necessity, but as a real added value.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been achieved, but some battles have yet to begin. today the urgency is for women from other cultures living in europe and the world in contexts where it is difficult for them to claim minimum standards of dignity and humanity. we cannot celebrate this holiday without putting the issue of women in the arab muslim world at the center, otherwise we continue to ignore a problem that concerns them today, but soon will become ours too. we cannot ignore the figures for an emergency which is growing year by year in europe too, in our cities, in the schools where our children are growing up. there has been a long-standing increase in cases of violence of all kinds against muslim women within their own families. that is why i have been calling for a long time, and i am calling again today, for europe to implement policies aimed at combating the spread of islamic radicalism, against forced marriages, the rights of honour, female genital mutilation and domestic violence. we, european women and men, must fight for those women, who live in europe and beyond, who have no voice and are oppressed by the monster of islamic fundamentalism.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must just make one point. the reason for this is that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in paragraph 66, after the phrase 'insists that women should have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, in particular through easy access to contraception and abortion', i propose by this oral amendment that the following should be added after the word 'abortion': 'recognising also the right to life of the unborn child, calls on the member states and the commission to put in place measures and actions to support the continuation of pregnancy by setting in motion specific social and welfare policies which help women to overcome, where possible, the causes which lead to the choice of abortion.' this oral amendment is intended to guarantee women's freedom to have safe access to abortion, but also to affirm the principle that abortion is neither a delayed contraceptive nor a birth control instrument.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr schaldemose for his report, which has the merit, first of all, of proposing concrete measures to strengthen the surveillance systems for the circulation on the community market of products which are safe for european consumers. it is an own-initiative report, but it has the merit of going in the right direction for the completion of the single market and the protection of european consumers. ensuring safety means having reliable traceability mechanisms throughout the life cycle of products. the report makes some useful suggestions in this respect: the commission has also proposed the creation of a product safety information database, the strengthening of the rapex system for dangerous products from third countries, and increased resources for the surveillance authorities to withdraw products presenting serious risks from the market. i would like to conclude by stressing that it is our task to ensure that products on the european market are safe for the most vulnerable groups of consumers, in particular children, the elderly and the disabled.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today parliament voted on a report on the general safety of products, which is another important step forward in strengthening the protection of the european consumer. the report stresses the importance of traceability throughout the product life cycle and calls on the european commission to carry out activities to ascertain and evaluate the use of new technologies, while ensuring consumer safety at optimized costs. the european consumer's ability to know all the aspects of a product therefore increases awareness and strengthens product protection. i think that new technologies can help to combat counterfeiting, especially in the textile sector. the aim of this report is to protect the consumer, but also to protect all those companies operating in europe which have not decided to outsource their activities. with this report we can certainly find a good solution to the continuing dispute over the non-european designation of origin by having full traceability.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of mr rivasi's report is the result of an assessment of the management of h1n1 influenza in 2009-2010 which aims to set out general guidelines for action in the event of a future global health emergency. the report, which has been the result of a long and successful process of revision, is based on cooperation, independence and transparency. it called for greater and better cooperation between the health authorities of the member states and the european institutions, so as to be able to deal with harmonised and proportionate risk management. the objectives are a change in the member states' strategy for national influenza management plans, including vaccine stocks, the publication of the names of all experts consulted by the european health authorities and an efficient relationship of trust with the media responsible for the dissemination of public health messages. that's why he got our vote in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to date the recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean have been transposed into community legislation on a provisional basis by means of annual regulations on fishing opportunities. these concern conservation, management, exploitation, control and marketing measures for fishery and aquaculture products in the mediterranean. the permanent nature of these recommendations, however, requires a more stable legal instrument for their transposition into community law. it is therefore appropriate to transpose those recommendations by means of a single legislative act to which future recommendations may be added. we have done that today and this will improve legal certainty and at the same time be an important step towards simplification. at this point, the gfcm contracting parties have an obligation to ensure full implementation of the agreed measures as from the date set and timely transposition was therefore necessary in order to make those international measures directly applicable to natural or legal persons at community level and to ensure legal certainty in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic and financial crisis has revealed serious shortcomings in the framework for the regulation and supervision of the global financial system. in the european union, the financial crisis was followed by a severe budgetary crisis, in which excessive and sometimes unjustified market pressures on national bonds played a significant role. highly speculative and short-term operations have once again been at the heart of the crisis and have highlighted the clear link between an inefficient regulatory and supervisory framework on the one hand, and the sustainability of public finances on the other. the economic costs of this crisis have yet to be fully assessed. however, it has now become clear that the world and the european union cannot afford another crisis of this magnitude and should not allow it to recur. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial system. so we have to change and change in a very positive way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis that has struck europe in recent years has brought to light the serious shortcomings of our framework. new instruments must be devised to curb speculation and restore the role of the financial sector. we must respond to the needs of the real economy and support long-term investment by ensuring a fair burden-sharing between the main financial players. in this way, we will be able to create new additional resources to address global and european challenges, such as climate change and the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy. i hope, however, that more attention will be paid to measures on public control and transparency of innovative financing systems, since these are a sine qua non for their introduction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the adoption of mr podimata's report represents a significant step forward towards a more balanced, more advanced and stronger economic and fiscal policy in the european sphere. it is now clear to everyone that europe, as a coordinating body of 27 countries, must be equipped with economic and financial instruments capable of governing the economy and not just suffering from it. for this reason, the proposal to tax financial transactions has received a great deal of attention, discussion and debate. the fact that the majority of this parliament voted for this regulation is important and significant, because for the first time it has not been allowed to run away and instead it has been a step forward. i hope that the commission and the council will continue along this path.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic crisis has highlighted the shortcomings of the system for monitoring the financial sector and the need to respond with new instruments and new fiscal policies. the financial system has begun to generate profits from speculative transactions and it is absurd that this sector is not subject to any taxation. we need a therapy and a financial transaction tax, which is why i voted for it. in other areas, such as energy and the environment, europe has been a world leader, setting an example and inspiring other countries outside the european union. i think the same should be done with the financial system. i hope that the commission will react quickly by presenting a legislative proposal that meets the expectations of the citizens who have been burdened by the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of a new tax is always a measure to be considered with the utmost care. while it allows for the activation of an incentive mechanism that reduces risks and negative externalities, it also creates distortions that could affect european financial markets. i am convinced that income from speculative activities and financial transactions should also be taxed, and i think it is appropriate that the pros and cons be carefully weighed and that such a tax be carefully considered so that it can have the desired effect without ceasing to produce wealth. i must stress, however, that if the union were to act in isolation, it would lose its competitiveness and would have no real means of persuading other global economic actors to follow suit. that is why i am in favour of taxation, provided it is done at global level and discussed in the g20.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have today approved with satisfaction the measure of our colleague mrs podimata and for us, the italian delegation of italy's values to the alde, it was a moment of satisfaction, because this parliament shows that it knows how to follow up on statements of principle. we have already been in favour of a tax on financial transactions since the debate on the berès report on the financial, economic and social crisis. this has been done today, and we are therefore happy to vote in favour, because this is a tax which will serve to shift financial resources from the financial economy, that is, from financial speculation, to the real economy, and will make it possible to respond to the millennium development goals, to respond to the major european projects for infrastructure, research, ecological conversion and our production system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the clear proof that the right to european citizenship is not yet guaranteed is precisely the serious inequalities that still exist between the individual member states. there is still no right to health in bulgaria, romania or elsewhere, so it is clear that this resolution, with all its complications, can also be a useful reference point. today we are celebrating women's day and there is no doubt that access to care and assistance is even more complicated, especially for women, and therefore we need more information, more prevention, treatment and rehabilitation and better lifestyles. the right lifestyles, no to addiction, no to obesity, to alcohol, to smoking, to infectious diseases. to do this requires a real cohesion policy which looks at this frontier of the right to health as a truly european objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european union is called upon to reform its common agricultural policy, ensuring the coherence between agricultural policy and external trade policy becomes an even more crucial factor. agriculture and trade are in fact two intersecting policy agendas, their dynamic influence and, to an increasing extent, is influenced by regulatory scenarios at multilateral, interregional, regional and bilateral levels, which are never static, but create hierarchies and evolve through negotiations. the complexity of national agricultural policies and international trade is reflected in regulatory differences, divergent commercial interests, trade tensions and disputes. since agriculture is not just an economic activity, but agricultural and food policies serve fundamental objectives such as food and consumer security, the main challenge today is to effectively reconcile commercial and non-commercial aspects. our trade policy will therefore play a decisive role in deciding whether agriculture will continue to make a full positive contribution to these objectives without compromising its dynamism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her contribution. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. on the contrary, women's employment is a strategic issue for europe, both culturally and economically. as evidenced by the data available, if women's employment rates were similar to men's, gdp would increase by 30 percent. the present crisis must not therefore set us back but, on the contrary, must move us forward in the direction of active policies on women's employment. targeted employment policies, therefore, which make it possible to assess the impact of the crisis on women and to think of countercyclical solutions. the report also has the merit of placing the issue of vocational training and female entrepreneurship at the centre of positive policies to promote female employment. i would like to conclude by saying that there is another phenomenon to be tackled, the serious phenomenon of violence against women. europe needs a comprehensive directive on preventing and combating all forms of violence against women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the reports on equality between men and women and on women's poverty in europe, and i am pleased that they have been discussed today, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of international women's day. despite directive 2002/73/ec on equal treatment between men and women in the access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, further efforts are still needed to achieve a proper transposition. it is enough to think that, despite the fact that the level of female education has increased considerably in recent years and that the number of female graduates now exceeds that of male graduates, women remain concentrated in traditionally female sectors and are often less paid and occupy fewer positions of responsibility in all spheres of society. the lack of access to support services for employees, such as children, the disabled, the elderly, adequate leave schemes and flexible working arrangements prevent women from working. i would like to conclude by reminding the women of the world who are fighting for the most basic rights and i would like our assembly to express solidarity with the feminist associations in iran who are taking to the streets today calling on women to demonstrate without the hijab.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the poverty of women is a well-known problem, which has ancient origins and is certainly not the result of an economic crisis. i therefore voted in favour of mrs plumb's report, convinced of the need to maintain a strong commitment at both european and national level to further progress towards gender equality. i believe that the measures contained in this report will provide useful support - perhaps not exhaustive, but a step forward - to the strategies for implementing the european pact for gender equality adopted by the european council and the gender equality action framework. the promotion by the member states of specific programmes to promote the active inclusion or reintegration of women into the labour market is the most appropriate option in this respect. however, it is essential that these programmes are not only coordinated at local, national and european level, but also find ways of coordinating with partners outside the european union.
in writing. - the proper functioning of the european single market, in my view, also passes through product safety and consumer confidence. the drive towards the free movement of goods and the further expansion of product variety must not divert attention from consumer protection. in a context of globalised markets, where more and more products are coming from abroad - especially from china - international cooperation on product safety issues is becoming a priority. directive 2001/95/ec lays down the general safety requirements for goods. however, the transposition of this directive by the member states has not been uniform and has given rise to a number of problems concerning both the scope and the actual dangerousness of products. i therefore believe that it is essential that it be revised so that products which are not safe can be identified and blocked, thereby ensuring that the interests of the european citizen are fully protected. finally, i fully support the rapporteur's proposal to adopt concrete measures in the field of product traceability. i believe that they will enable the authorities, businesses and consumers to identify those products which, once they have entered the european market, are not safe.
in writing. − the european single market needs, now more than ever, regulatory instruments to make uniform the safety controls of goods traded in our countries. this is urgently needed because we must protect our consumers from the flood of products, especially those from countries like china, which are often designed and packaged without any regard for the safety of the end user. we must monitor the goods entering our markets, their quality and their compatibility with our standards of consumer safety and we must, above all, harmonize national practices, which sometimes differ greatly from one another, in the field of market surveillance, with a single regulatory instrument. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the exchange of good practice between member states, encouraged by the report in the final framework of the proposals in mrs schaldemose's text, can also legitimately be expected to produce good results. i therefore vote in favour of the schaldemose report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to revise the directive on general product safety. i am firmly convinced that the single market can only work well if it builds consumer confidence and offers safe products. the european directive 2001/95/ec, which regulates the general safety requirements for products, was adopted 10 years ago: it is time to update it in the light of new products coming to the market. consumer safety and protection has always been the priority of our policy, so it is essential to revise this directive by updating the rules on product safety requirements and aligning the legislation with the new regulatory framework. i agree with the need to implement certain measures: i am referring, for example, to the need to strengthen market surveillance, to take concrete measures to ensure the traceability of products, including through modern technological tools, to create a database of information on the safety of consumer products, to pay greater attention to products intended for children. in short, measures which, if implemented soon, will make consumers more confident in their purchases on the european market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the good work done by mr schaldemose, i am voting in favour of the report on the directive on general product safety and market surveillance. i support this report because it contains measures to stop the circulation of products which could be harmful to consumers, and it also emphasizes strict control of products from third countries, especially china.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs schaldemose on her work. the report approved by the ep today deals with the important issue of general product safety and, consequently, the protection of citizens. the european commitment to protecting consumers from defective and dangerous products has already achieved good standards, but i believe that there is still room for improvement, especially in relation to so-called vulnerable consumers such as children, the elderly and the disabled. i believe that the strengthening of the market surveillance system, through action to improve the effectiveness of border controls, and the complete traceability of products along the entire supply chain are crucial in this respect. i would like to conclude by recalling the need to revise the current regulatory framework, represented by the directive on general product safety, in accordance with the guidelines indicated by parliament's vote today.
in writing. − while there is no doubt that progress has been made in the last decade in the field of product requirements in the eu internal market - thanks also to a common approach - much remains to be done. it would be important to pursue a review of the current european legislation on this matter. it is clear that the general product safety directive (gpsd), which has been in force for 10 years, needs to be revised. this would also allow the prerogatives of the new product regulatory framework (nrc) adopted in 2008 to be respected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. but the real problem to be solved - and the real priority of the report - is to focus on products that are suitable for children and products that are attractive to them. it is also desirable that the commission should propose a genuine 'regulation on general product safety and market surveillance'. it should include essential elements such as the adoption of concrete measures in the field of traceability; the obligation for manufacturers to carry out a thorough risk analysis during the design phase; or, again, a strict discipline for the sale of products online.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the size of the european market requires effective and specific regulations to ensure product safety for consumers, which is why i believe that the eu needs to update its rules to ensure market surveillance. the rapporteur's report, which i have endorsed, states that the 2001 directive must be revised in view of the difficulties encountered by the member states in transposing it, since since 2004, when they failed to apply the directive, they have created problems with the control of products by failing to ensure that they are properly certified. i agree with the emphasis in the report on the fight against counterfeiting through better product identification while respecting consumer safety through the use of new technologies.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs schaldemose on her excellent work. consumers must be better protected against defective and potentially dangerous products. with this report we are telling the commission that we need to review the directive, we need to strengthen the market surveillance system and have market surveillance that is consistent throughout the single market. i think it is vital to improve border controls, particularly at ports, in order to combat the presence of defective products in the common market effectively. i call on the commission and the national governments to introduce stricter sanctions against imports from third countries which violate safety standards. complete traceability of products throughout the supply chain is another key point to ensure that defective products can be withdrawn from the market, even in a definitive manner. to this end, the border authorities must be provided with sufficient resources. i also call for greater attention to online sales, which are on the rise, particularly for sales of those products which can cause direct harm to the consumer, such as pharmaceutical and food products.
in writing. - in adopting this resolution, the european parliament stresses the vital importance of improving border controls, particularly at ports, in order to combat the presence of defective products in the common market effectively. the text adopted calls on the commission and national governments to introduce stricter sanctions against imports from third countries which breach safety standards. moreover, greater attention will have to be paid to the growing phenomenon of online sales, in particular sales of those products which can cause direct harm to the consumer, such as pharmaceuticals and food products. complete traceability of products throughout the supply chain is another key point to ensure that defective products can be withdrawn from the market, even in a definitive manner. to this end, the border authorities will need to be provided with sufficient resources to carry out checks. it is important to stress the obligation for manufacturing companies to check the possibility of risks to safety and health already at the product design stage and the creation of a public product safety database.
in writing. − the revision of the directive aims to unify and harmonise overlapping and even divergent market surveillance rules which apply to consumer goods. in a globalised world of moving goods and people, there is an increasing need for systematic checks on products for sale. particular attention should be paid to products coming from third countries, where the hygiene and health standards, the production processes and the use of materials which we do not allow, create the risk of contamination on objects which end up on our tables or in our hands. in particular, the non-toxicity of toys for children, which are often placed in the mouth and which are now almost exclusively made in china, a country unfortunately known for its low production costs and poor quality controls, must be checked. the traceability of products which may be unsafe for consumers is of particular interest.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the work of my colleague, mrs michèle rivasi, on the evaluation of the management of the h1n1 influenza in the eu in 2009-2010, because it shows the excessive alarmism of the european union in assessing this phenomenon. i am in favour of a sensible level of care for the health of eu citizens, but not excessive alarmism which then translates into exorbitant costs of public health expenditure. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, the motion for a resolution we have adopted has laid the foundations for a much-needed reflection on the european union's response to the spread of swine flu. on that occasion, as you will recall, the member states, instead of coming up with common solutions, took individualistic positions and the reaction of the various national governments was very varied, ranging from large-scale vaccination to no vaccination, as in the case of poland. this experience should provide the impetus for improving coordination between national health authorities and the european institutions, reviewing prevention and vaccination strategies and redefining pandemic alert criteria. i would like to remind you that more effective cooperation can not only lead to a reduction in the cost of managing such crises, also thanks to the possible joint purchase of vaccines by the member states, but also and above all it can guarantee citizens better protection, since of course the virus has no territorial boundaries. finally, i hope that the european centre for disease prevention and control will be given the appropriate support so that it can continue to carry out its task of assessing and identifying a health emergency in complete independence.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the resolution on the evaluation of the management of h1n1 influenza in the european union in 2009-2010 clearly highlights the mistakes made and, at the same time, lays the foundations for renewed and effective action to manage influenza pandemics. as is well known, the response to the spread of h1n1 influenza has been exaggerated in relation to the actual size of the response. for this very reason, i believe that europe's pandemic prevention plans should be revised in order to achieve rapid, coherent and effective responses. in this context, i think it is essential to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the member states, which are necessary to achieve a strategic approach to the problem that takes on a truly european character. i also think it is useful, as the text of the resolution points out, to involve, along with the pharmaceutical industry, independent scientific experts who are not linked to the pharmaceutical industry in any way.
in writing. − based on the statistical data presented in this report, the response to the spread of h1n1 influenza has indeed been disproportionate to the real nature of the phenomenon, resulting in hyper-costly vaccination campaigns in many member states. the rapporteur therefore considered it appropriate to raise very relevant issues, first and foremost the one concerning the preponderant influence of the pharmaceutical companies. it is urgent that studies on antiviral medicines be independent of pharmaceutical companies. the accelerated authorisation procedures have proved their limitations, because there is no scientific evidence available and therefore recourse is still made to data disseminated by industry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the who should, as soon as possible, revise its definition of pandemic, to include the "severity" of the virus in its classification. in this respect, the vaccine must be effective, have a positive risk-benefit ratio and be targeted to groups at real risk. finally, any conflict of interest must be avoided, since it can immediately arouse public suspicion of undue pressure.
in writing. - i congratulate mr rivasi on his excellent work. this report is an important attempt to highlight the doubts that have been raised about the disproportionate response to swine flu in europe, as well as the potential influence of pharmaceutical companies on the actions taken. i critically assess the union's response in 2009-2010 to the so-called swine influenza, h1n1 virus. i suggest, for the future, group purchases of vaccines to save money and more effective rules to avoid conflicts of interest, for example through the publication of the declaration of interests of experts who are advisers to the european health authorities. i would remind you that under european legislation the manufacturers of vaccines are responsible for their manufacture and not the national governments. i also call on the world health organization to revise the definition of 'pandemic' and to take into account the severity of the disease and not just the geographical spread of the virus. in order to equip the union with its own capacity to prevent pandemic risks, the european centre for disease prevention and control should be granted the necessary support to carry out this task in full independence.
in writing. − although the virulence of influenza a/h1n1 in europe has not been particularly aggressive, the virus has so far caused as many as 4 700 deaths. the report published by the european centre for disease prevention and control notes that in managing the virus, the european union has been unable to adapt quickly to the medical measures needed to contain infections. this is largely due to the prevention strategies adopted in the various member states, which were planned in consultation with the who years ago and have never been substantially updated since. in order to prevent such situations from recurring, and also in view of the severe criticisms received of the way vaccines are distributed, it is in this direction that efforts should be concentrated in the future, by optimising the authorisation procedures for the placing on the market of medicinal products intended for the response to health crises.
in writing. - we support the own-initiative report, as we all realise that the excessive alarmism linked to the alleged avian influenza pandemic has cost the eu about 10 times more than the normal influenza campaign. accepting the who's warning without acting independently through cost and risk analyses carried out by the european agencies ecdc and ema has led to costly and unnecessary vaccination campaigns and in particular to pushing the population to buy disproportionate quantities of disposable sterile material and disinfectants. in the end the result in terms of deaths, which is what the legislator should be most concerned about, was even lower than that of a normal seasonal influence. it is therefore essential that the commission informs parliament within six months of a detailed cost-benefit analysis and of how it intends to deal with similar situations in the future. the who should revise the definition of pandemic to take account of both the geographical extent and the severity of the infection.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this document which aims to bring together in a single community legislative act certain measures decided by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the european community has so far adopted annual regulations for the purpose of regulatory adjustment, while this report is moving towards the bureaucratic and administrative simplification which is one of the objectives of the european union. the document also clarifies certain purely technical aspects: the commission has also proposed that the fishing opportunities for the stocks concerned be increased by a further 10% in the case of the fisheries sector. finally, i agree with amendment no 27, which provides for the establishment of a list every year of vessels of more than 15 metres overall length authorized to fish in the gfcm area by issuing a fishing authorization.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents a positive step forward in an economic sector as crucial to europe as fisheries. i believe that any action by the european union in this area must always start with an analysis of the needs of the local communities that depend on this activity, which is often characterized by the presence of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are essential to the economy and society. in the mediterranean, many areas have these characteristics, so it is very important that the legislative proposals which are intended to deal with fisheries in this area are clearly inspired by respect for the principle of subsidiarity, so as not to risk compromising the whole system. i am also firmly convinced that it is essential to protect, above all, the small and mediumsized enterprises operating in this sector, involving them in the decision-making process and providing them with the greatest possible support, because they are very difficult to re-skill. rules which do not take account of these peculiarities could irreparably damage smaller markets, forcing them to convert to another area which appears very complex to achieve.
in writing. − the european union's membership of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is reaching a major turning point with this proposal for a regulation. it is of particular interest in that it provides for the transposition of certain recommendations adopted by the cgpm into a single community legislative act. this is a much more stable legal instrument than the current one and it is only possible to add further recommendations by amending the legislative act itself. it is a key step in improving legal certainty and also contributes to regulatory simplification. beyond the importance of provisions on a minimum mesh size for fishing nets, article 28 of this proposal for a regulation calls into question the prerogatives of parliament. it provides that the provisions of the regulation may be amended by the 'comitology procedure', whereby the commission is assisted by management committees, chaired by a representative of the commission and composed of representatives of the member states. this would effectively deprive parliament of its powers, which is why it seems desirable for the commission to act by means of delegated acts, with the possibility of the parliament or the council revoking the delegation of powers.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's view that the fisheries regulation should be simplified to a regulation which can incorporate the recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission in the mediterranean into a single instrument. i also share the objectives and principles of the common fisheries policy, but i believe that in all coastal member states a fair balance must be struck between socioeconomic value and the protection of ecosystems, that is to say, i believe that the protection of the particular interests of local communities must also be claimed, in accordance with a general principle. regulation no 1967/2006 sets out in detail the gear permitted for fishing in the waters of the gfcm area, in our particular case, the mediterranean. i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the objective of protecting our natural habitats sometimes has serious repercussions for certain fishing communities, as is provided for in the current regulations. italy is awaiting a commission derogation from the de facto ban on fishing for two species, which are the main product of a large marine industry. i would therefore like to call on all the representatives of the 27 member states and, through them, on the commission to consider whether it is appropriate to make these instruments less rigid in the face of the survival needs of a local fisheries sector.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr rivellini's report because i fully agree with the importance of achieving a regulatory simplification of the union's regulations. the report offers the possibility of bringing together all the recommendations of the committee on fisheries in the mediterranean into a single european legislative text, making it easier for the citizen to access the documentation and making it easier for the competent bodies to make any future changes. i believe that the task of simplifying legislation for citizens and operators in the sector is a duty, which we as legislators must carry out quickly and carefully in order to enable them to understand the opportunities that the european union offers, but above all to eliminate the bureaucratic burden that so many additional costs present.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the regulatory work of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean has been essential in order to achieve a sustainable level of fishing in the mare nostrum. the latest statistics on mediterranean fish stocks show that over 54% of the stocks analysed are overexploited. this is why it is a priority to take legislative action to protect the marine environment by bringing the use of fish stocks back to sustainable levels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i share the need for the european union to look for new innovative financing instruments. they enable the eu to meet the challenges of today, because they play both a regulatory and a revenue-generating role. it has often been pointed out in this house that the economic crisis has highlighted the shortcomings in the regulation and supervision of the global financial system. it is also well known that today it is the taxpayers who are bearing the cost of the crisis in the first place, not only through direct contributions but also in terms of rising unemployment, ever lower incomes, reduced access to social services and increasing inequalities. new instruments are therefore needed to formulate an organic and integrated response to the crisis. i therefore agree with the introduction, which has been under discussion for some time, of 'eurobonds', which could lead to joint debt management by aggregating part of the sovereign debt. the rapporteur then proposes other financing instruments to curb speculation: the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to achieve the objectives of the treaty, including, for example, consistent and effective taxation of the energy sector and the development of proposals for taxation for development that will increase the resources to be allocated to achieving the millennium development goals.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a positive step towards the future innovative financing instruments which will be the basis for the revival of the european economy. i believe it is essential for europe to also find resources on the market to finance the crucial sectors of our economy, in line with the europe 2020 objectives, in particular the transeuropean infrastructure in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors needed to overcome the crisis. it is essential to keep the european economy moving. the eu's responsibility is not to impose and/or raise taxes, but to have the courage to face the market. the solution is to find new forms of financing which can guarantee the full realisation of projects in the shortest possible time, by creating ad hoc funds based on the issue on the capital market of securities directly linked to the realisation and economic exploitation of the project, the so-called project bonds. as regards a possible tax on financial transactions, it should only be proposed in europe if it is introduced at global level: i think that the commission should consider the possibility of introducing this tax at eu level, trying to assess whether this could have negative consequences for the competitiveness of the eu system.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis has shown the complete lack of ethics in this area. the new welfare economy paradigm that the pursuit of individual welfare is the key to collective welfare, which is the summation of it, shows in all its inadequacy. in fact, in this logic, the individual interest is not limited by the collective and even less by the general interest. since the government of the public interest must first of all set the general interest as the horizon within which to operate, and within it give free rein to individual freedoms and rights, it must be supported by a fair and progressive tax system. in line with this approach, which must be supported at global level, starting with the eu and all the g8 and g20 countries, financial transaction revenues must be made comparable to other income through a specific taxation that, together with other rules and new paradigms, encourages greater responsibility of operators. finally, the introduction of eurobonds for the crisis fund and infrastructure projects could strengthen the eu's capacity to act, if in addition to the community budget. the report we have approved seems to me to be moving, albeit slowly, in that direction.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the resolution on innovative financial instruments, which is parliament's contribution to the debate on how to generate new revenue, ensure a fair tax policy and maximise the capacity to recover the levy. i am in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt): the recent crisis - in which a certain type of speculative finance is largely to blame - shows that it is the states and citizens who pay for the damage caused by others. a financial transaction tax would bring about €200 billion into the eu's public coffers each year and would help to reduce speculative activities, making them more costly and therefore less profitable. however, i believe that this tax should be introduced at a global level and not just at a european level, in order to avoid creating a competitive disadvantage for europe itself, which, let us not forget, has a very high attractiveness as the world's largest market. finally, parliament's support for eurobonds and project bonds to support the recovery by stimulating the real economy and promoting the construction of vital infrastructure for the european economy is to be welcomed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the financial system, the author of reckless transactions and speculation, is identified as one of the main culprits of the financial crisis, then it is right that the architects should contribute by making the most significant economic contribution. however, i believe that the form of this report is likely to undermine the precarious balance of competition, and to undermine the basis of it, since its application would be on a global scale. for this reason, and in order not to set a dangerous precedent for the european tax system, i do not think i can support the report by voting against it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report which parliament is voting on today concerns the introduction of innovative financial instruments. i voted in favour of this resolution because the economic crisis of recent years has shown the lack of regulation and the need to create new financial instruments to deal with the large-scale financial speculation. in this way, european action will be able to re-establish unequivocally the need to respond to the needs of the real economy, supporting long-term investment and creating new additional resources, in order to address and overcome the main global and european challenges, achieving the growth and development objectives under the 2020 strategy. the dramatic increase in financial transactions has revealed the growing gap between finance and the real economy. the introduction of a financial transaction tax, the issue of common european bonds and the envisaged carbon tax are some of the proposals aimed at creating the new pathways needed for our economy, but without in any way prejudicing the most vulnerable groups of consumers.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my negative opinion of this report because, while the idea of a contribution from the financial system, which has many faults in the crisis of the last two years, would seem to be right, the way in which it is being applied leaves me very puzzled. i must say that i am very much in favour of the proposal to create eurobonds, which i believe can be a useful instrument, but it is the preponderant part on the introduction of a financial transaction tax that is creating the greatest problems. i think it is too risky to apply it at a single european union level, because it would risk taking away the competitiveness of the whole community financial system and operators could easily circumvent it by focusing on other places. i would also not like this tax to open the way to the creation of a potential centralised treasury at eu level, which i would strongly oppose.
in writing. − the recent economic crisis has exposed the weaknesses of the global financial regulatory and supervisory system. all too often, in fact, the volume of these transactions has far exceeded the needs of the real world, causing speculation that over time has made the capital involved extremely volatile and at risk of insolvency. this is weighing heavily on taxpayers, including in terms of high unemployment rates, ever-lower incomes, reduced access to social services and rising inequalities. to prevent future crises, the european union must now promote concrete changes in regulation and supervision, shaping a healthier and more robust financial environment. the idea of a levy on financial transactions has important advantages, especially in the aftermath of a crisis such as the present one: stabilise markets, encourage long-term investment and ensure traceability for the purpose of auditing individual transactions. curb speculation, support long-term investment and achieve higher long-term growth under the eu 2020 strategy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are considerable health inequalities in the european union and the measures taken to combat these inequalities vary widely within the member states. as i believe that these health differences can produce a significant influence on individuals throughout their lives, they are a problem that must be tackled with determination and with innovative policy vision. the report under discussion contains points of considerable interest concerning the recognition of the practical right to health of citizens, in particular by focusing on both the education of the population and the widespread availability of health services. the social consequences of the recent economic and financial crisis are obvious: since the start of the crisis, the number of unemployed has increased by 5 million, many households have been hit by the recession and are now more at risk of poverty or over-indebtedness. in my view, it is crucial that reducing these inequalities is considered a priority at all levels of decision-making. i also call on the commission to give them greater recognition in the europe 2020 strategy and to ensure that the objective of reducing health inequalities is fully taken into account in future community initiatives.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it must be admitted that this report contains a number of points of considerable interest concerning the recognition of the right to health in the concrete sense (access to health care, training of the population, the widespread availability of services, etc.). we cannot, however, fail to raise certain reservations which stem from the contradictions inherent in the document itself and which have given rise to a wide-ranging debate. equality should be understood in a concrete sense and not by isolating individuals (particularly women) from their relationships with their partner, with their children and from the social context in which sexuality and reproductive capacity are practically exercised. furthermore, the proclamation of "new rights" such as the "right to safe abortion" is a matter of concern because such a statement constrains or sometimes cancels out the rights of others (the expectations of the father or the life expectancy of the conceived child). we can also point out some shortcomings, such as the complete omission of the document on professional operators: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the health and well-being of european citizens is a priority which this parliament must guarantee and protect. but even more importantly, it is essential for us to promote the uniform guarantee of this right for all european countries. socioeconomic, cultural and structural inequalities often create a diverse landscape in which not everyone has equal access to care and healthcare facilities. it is therefore the weaker groups, migrants, the elderly, children and the disabled who pay, even with their lives, the high price of a right to health that is denied to them. this must not happen, ladies and gentlemen, at european, national or regional level. the victims of an unfortunately widespread disease are as blameless as those who lack equal access to health care. i voted in favour of the resolution which encourages the reduction of inequalities between the member states in health standards and promotes more efficient health policies that are available to all, not only to users but also to those who, as health workers, can find better working conditions to work better for the health of all.
in writing. − health inequalities are a problem that must also be addressed at european level. the reasons often stem from differences in opportunities, access to services and material resources, as well as from different lifestyle choices made by individuals. an innovative policy approach is needed to address them. the economic and financial crisis of recent years has led to a reduction in the level of funding for health and long-term care services, as a result of budget cuts and tax revenue reductions, while demand for health and long-term care services has increased. many member states have included in their recovery plans measures such as investments in health infrastructure, restructuring and additional financing of the health system. however, interventions to address health inequalities vary widely from country to country. the collection and sharing of data on effective strategies, policies and interventions will help to win support from governments. it is essential that reducing health inequalities is considered a key priority, thus pursuing a 'health in all policies' approach and ensuring effective impact assessments that take into account the achievements in terms of health equity.
in writing. - the attempt to reduce health inequalities in the european union, for cohesive social and economic development, is certainly to be assessed positively, which is why i voted in favour of the estrela report. the suggestions for improving health in europe through health education, access to care, data literacy and the use of mechanisms to measure, monitor, evaluate and disseminate information offer an important contribution to developing policies for effectively reducing health inequalities. but i think it is equally important to respect the principle of subsidiarity and to defend and safeguard certain national characteristics and peculiarities.
in writing. the 2010 eurostat data are clear: there are still large disparities between the 27 member states in the quality of healthcare provided. parameters such as life expectancy in different member states still vary widely from region to region, showing that quality standards of healthcare are still too heterogeneous within the eu. access to primary and secondary education, stable and satisfactory employment, gender, cultural background and access to quality health care are the factors that contribute more than others to raising the quality of life of citizens. the report must therefore take account in particular of the rights of the most vulnerable groups, especially women, and their specific needs.
in writing. - while starting from a shared principle, that the average level of health in the european union has continued to improve, despite the fact that there are still important differences in the health field due to the different systems of the member states, the report is lost in the rights of migrants. these are placed among the most vulnerable groups, such as the disabled, the elderly and children, without taking into account that many of them are illegal immigrants and therefore in europe illegally. we cannot therefore treat migrants in the same way as disabled people, who are a vulnerable group requiring special attention and assistance adapted to their needs. the report divides society into classes rich, poor, ethnic minorities, men, women, children with outdated methodology instead of talking about citizens with rights and claims to measure, through specific legislation, these alleged health inequalities. the amendments adopted have even made the text worse, including various issues such as climate change, violence against women, assisted reproduction, and equal access to the health system for illegal immigrants.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report, in agreement with the commission, emphasizes the need to strengthen the synergies between fiscal and development policies. the commission has published two studies on this subject and a resolution on the same subject was adopted in this house a year ago. i voted in favour because i share the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) and the management of the tax system, the commitment to supporting the tax systems of developing countries, and international dialogue and cooperation in the field of taxation. however, it is necessary to stress the shortcomings still in place in the management of customs revenue, the current gaps in the oecd, the erosion of tax revenue. i think it is appropriate for the european union to work to combat inefficiencies such as the fight against tax havens, the manipulation of trade prices, the weakness of the international structure. it is time to reduce the manipulation of commercial prices, the so-called 'curse of natural resources', the widening of the tax base, greater coordination between donors.
in writing. − the commission is doing a good job of promoting principles and criteria for developing good tax management practices in cooperation with developing countries. the criteria of transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition are fundamental. it is a process which the commission aims to implement by strengthening the synergies between fiscal and development policies, with the aim of identifying the difficulties encountered by these countries in mobilising revenue through taxation. on the other hand, however, the commission is still omitting several issues which require a prompt response. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. to this end, it is desirable that most international organisations have a specific mandate to combat tax havens. finally, an extension of the tax base, by means of adjusting the tax reform to the development of direct taxation, is essential to resolve the collection difficulties arising from the regressive vat system.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs joly's report on taxation and development, cooperation with developing countries to promote good tax management practices, because - in line with the europe 2020 strategy - i believe it is essential to have a global governance that supports international tax dialogue and cooperation. i agree with the report when it says that it wants to expand the synergies between tax and development policies through the exchange of information on tax matters and through multilateral mechanisms that refer to the model of the eu directive on taxation of savings income in order to combat tax evasion and avoidance. tax cooperation with developing countries is precisely intended to prevent these countries from becoming 'tax havens' for multinational companies and from distorting competitiveness, which is a negative factor in the development of economic processes, given the global interconnectedness of the economic system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text of this report because i share the view that greater synergy between fiscal and development policies can help the developing countries. the commission's latest reports on taxation and development also show that taxation, if specifically designed, can be a source of financing for development policies. it is no coincidence that many developing countries do not even reach the minimum level of tax revenue needed to finance basic public services. cooperation to strengthen their tax systems and the fight against tax havens, which facilitate illicit capital flight, must be at the heart of these processes, which can facilitate the introduction of country-by-country financial reporting obligations, to the benefit of the fight against poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr papastamkos. international trade plays a decisive role within the eu, especially in view of the fact that european farmers are disadvantaged by imports from third countries and the non-application of the principle of reciprocity, which gives foreign farmers an undue advantage when they are often not required to comply with the same stringent and costly regulations that european farmers must comply with in order to operate in the internal market - especially from the point of view of health and plant health. i will continue to fight for a strong coherence in europe between the cap and the eu's external trade policy, which must guarantee the european agricultural model a level playing field for producers in the member states on the world market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is a strategic sector for the european union. although it is not of average importance in terms of employment and gross domestic product, or at least in terms of the characteristics of our territories and our food traditions, it is of greater importance, since it ensures self-sufficiency in many of the ingredients essential to our traditional and non-traditional agri-food products. it is also a sector which is fundamental to the preservation and protection of the environment and to the sustainable development of our territories. it is clear that trade agreements, especially in the world trade organisation round, must be reached. but to do this, the european union must pay greater attention to the protection of quality, traditional and certified products, so that they can be safeguarded at international level to avoid fraud on foreign markets of products falsely traced back to our territories. the main thrust of the report as adopted seems to be in the right direction
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr papastamkos on his report and the excellent cooperation which i support. i would like to stress the great importance of international trade in the eu and to draw everyone's attention to the fact that european farmers are disadvantaged by imports from third countries. in fact, the principle of reciprocity is not applied and it often happens that imported agricultural products do not comply with the same rules that community farmers must comply with, especially from the point of view of health and plant health. the problem is not only the health of the products but also their quality. this is why there must be coherence between the cap and the eu's external trade policy, which must ensure the maintenance of the european agricultural model and a level playing field for eu producers on the world market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote sends a strong signal to the commission: the european union cannot continue to grant concessions to gain access to third country markets at the expense of the agricultural sector! at a time when the european union is considering the new common agricultural policy, finding mechanisms to ensure coherence between the cap and external trade policy is becoming a primary objective. the european agricultural sector guarantees the achievement of many public goods, such as food safety and quality. the protection of the interests of european farmers must therefore be given priority and i welcome the inclusion in the document of some paragraphs which provide for the guarantee of reciprocity for european producers by requiring that meat exporters to europe be subject to the same restrictions as european producers in order to ensure consumer safety and fair commercial competition. at this stage of the negotiations on the mercosur and morocco agreements, i think it is essential to make clear to the commission our concern and our firm position in defence of the interests of european and italian farmers.
in writing. - mr president, there is a close link between the future of the cap and the union's external trade policy. these two realities cannot be separated from each other and require special attention from the union. we cannot ignore the trade talks and their impact on the agricultural production of the member states. i am therefore in favour of a liberalised market which also takes account of the needs of the union's economic and trade partners, but at the same time i think it is appropriate for agricultural policy to be involved in the negotiation of agreements to control the quality of products exported or imported on our markets and to protect community producers and our food supplies. i therefore support the papastamkos report, even though there has been an imbalance on some trade issues, due to the division of powers between the agriculture and trade committees of this parliament, which should work in synergy to define a negotiating balance applicable to the different agricultural trade treaties of the union.
in writing. the report on agriculture and international trade covers trade agreements between the eu and third countries in respect of agricultural products. the european commission, which has been criticized on several occasions in the field of agricultural policy, is condemned in this text by the european parliament, which too often comes to conclusions which are not acceptable to european agricultural policy. i voted in favour of the text because i believe that the political role of parliament is essential, which the commission avoids consulting when it comes to trade relations with third countries. i agree with the request to the commission to suspend the agreement with mercosur until a new agreement is drawn up with the states concerned in order to guarantee european consumers quality and safety of products and affordability on foreign markets.
in writing. the report on agriculture and international trade was voted on today in plenary. the report by mr georgios papastamkos stresses that international trade policy must not have the effect of undermining the union's ability to ensure food security in a context of volatile markets and the maintenance of a strong european agricultural sector. the report condemns the commission's approach of granting concessions on agriculture to obtain better access to third markets for industrial products and services. the report covers a number of issues, including impact assessment, financial compensation, the wto/doha, but above all the problematic bilateral trade agreements, such as those with morocco, pakistan, ukraine and in particular mercosur, and considers it unacceptable that the european commission should resume negotiations without making the impact assessment public and without initiating a real political debate with the council and the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it strengthens the position of the agricultural policy, a cornerstone of european economic and social cohesion, also in view of the challenges posed by the europe 2020 strategy. the european union is now the world's largest importer of agricultural products, particularly from developing countries. in the last ten years the value of its imports has almost doubled, accounting for 20 percent of the world's industry. against this background, it is necessary to build a strong european trade policy that implements article 208 tfeu, which states that europe is committed to cooperating in the implementation of growth policies in developing countries. the priority now is to ensure that european trade and agricultural policy act together in a global perspective, facilitating access to the markets of developing countries and enabling them to promote economic development through these practices at the same time.
in writing. − the dependence of some european sectors on non-eu markets is a problem not only for raw materials but also for the feed sector. in particular, mr häusling's report shows that over 40 million tonnes of protein plants are imported into europe every year, mainly soybeans and maize gluten feed, representing 80% of the eu's consumption of protein plants. in view of this, i can only support the requests of my colleague, who hopes that in the future cap europe will promote agricultural policies aimed at breaking this dependence on imports with a clear beneficial effect on the quality and sustainability of the supply chain.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the import of proteins from third countries is a major problem, since the equivalent requirements for imported legumes are not ensured. these protein plants are mainly used for the animal sector and this puts the price system at risk as the volatility of the latter on international markets has increased exponentially. that is why i support the rapporteur's call for an ever-increasing reduction in dependence on imports from the eu.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to say that protein crops currently occupy only 3% of the cultivated land in the eu and only 30% of the vegetable protein needed in the form of animal feed describes a reality that is difficult for most people to understand. the decline in the supply of plant protein is a paradox at a time when plant protein production gives rise to a number of positive externalities which are necessary for the agricultural ecosystem, beneficial to the quality of the final livestock products and important for market price balances. the comparison, which has already begun in committee, has proved to be fundamental in redefining the role of plant protein cultivation in the context of the future challenges of european agriculture. i am referring to the fight against climate change and the proper use of natural resources, which are the subject of due attention at this stage of the elaboration of the framework for the future cap. i have supported this report, which i regard as emblematic of a new phase which must be opened up to reduce the deficit of vegetable protein. i consider it a priority to create a specific framework programme for decentralised agricultural research to strengthen cooperation, share best practice and accelerate the process of improving the cultivation of protein plants adapted to local needs, innovating the supply chain in the various member states.
in writing. − the production of protein plants in the european union is declining significantly, making the situation alarming. the protein deficit causes imbalances not only in agricultural production but also in the field of research and development of agricultural techniques. farmers have gradually lost interest in protein crops, leading to a loss of practical experience at european level. the report stresses the urgency of formulating a genuine integrated european strategy. only a more balanced supply and consumption of protein crops produced within the eu will be able to respond to new challenges such as climate change or the loss of agricultural biodiversity. the european commission is therefore expected to examine the possibilities of overcoming the current emergency of protein deficiency by means of a radical reform of the cap, which is capable of meeting the new challenges. it would also be appropriate to introduce a complementary payment with a mandatory rotation of at least four different crops, at least one of which is protein. finally, a unit for agricultural research should be set up within the commission's agriculture and rural development dg to encourage consumers and catering services to make more environmentally friendly food choices.
in writing. the report by martin häusling on the 'protein deficit in the eu' was voted on in plenary today. the eu is very dependent on imports of protein crops, which are mainly used for animal feed, which poses important risks, particularly for the european livestock sector. a number of compromise amendments have considerably improved the original report. the report adopted calls on the commission to adopt a medium- and long-term vision of protein policy and calls for the reform of the cap to introduce new provisions, supporting farmers in improving crop rotation systems, to reduce the deficit in plant proteins and price volatility. the report also calls for research on seeds and their contribution to disease control. the report calls on the commission to ensure unhindered supply of soya to the european market by providing a technical solution on the low level of gmos for food and feed imported into the eu.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest estimates concerning the protein crops sector show a worrying trend in the decline of protein crop production in the european union over the last decade. each year in europe, the production of legumes is reduced by 30%, and that of soya beans by 12%, resulting in an import of 40 million tonnes of protein plants. the text of this report shows that the european livestock sector, which is vulnerable to price volatility, is too dependent on the availability of imported plant protein. this dependence is undermining the economic viability of domestic meat production, which is increasingly weakened by the additional costs of importing feed, not to mention the economic problem that, in view of climate objectives, the production of protein crops would substantially contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - the production of pulses has declined in recent years, leading to a heavy dependence on imports from third countries, as they are used for both human and animal feed. these crops, in addition to reducing the european union's protein deficit, are, once the product is harvested, an excellent soil additive, which therefore requires less use of chemical fertiliser. good agricultural management should provide for crop rotation, thereby reducing fertilisation and safeguarding the diversity of species in wild and cultivated varieties. the request, which we share, is that the future cap should include measures to overcome the union's protein deficit by increasingly reducing imports.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the centenary of the international women's day, a symbol of the struggle for social equality and freedom from the discriminatory and harassing behaviour which women have suffered and still suffer. in every single country in the world there is a different perception of the female figure, there is a lot of talk about islamic countries and the way women are judged and treated, further influenced by religion. fortunately, even though we in the west have an equal vision of men and women, the data describes a disconcerting situation. in europe, many disparities persist to the disadvantage of girls and women in terms of employment, privacy, health and the right to access education and vocational training and to occupy jobs in non-traditional sectors and with a high level of responsibility. but that is not all, women face not only multiple forms of discrimination, but they are also victims of all kinds of violence, psychological and physical. it is therefore necessary to protect women and to enable them to lead a life of equal quality to that of men. gender equality is not just a matter of social justice, but is one of the prerequisites for achieving the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion set out in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its 2010 annual report, the european commission has highlighted the challenges facing europe in the wake of the recent economic and financial crisis in the field of equality between men and women. one important consequence of this crisis for women is employment: they were affected later than men because of their greater presence in the sectors that withstood the effects of the crisis longer (health, education, etc.), but now these sectors are also at risk of being affected, leading to a long-term precariousness of working women compared to men. i believe that this is another reason why equality between men and women in employment should no longer be just a goal to be pursued, but should become a reality. the member states and the commission must therefore commit themselves not only to maintaining policies for equality between men and women but, above all, to not reducing the budgetary expenditure allocated to them. finally, since i believe that the promotion of equality must be achieved through the education and training of citizens, and in particular of young people, i would draw the commission's attention to the need to renew awareness-raising campaigns on this subject over time.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, equality between women and men is one of the fundamental pillars of the development of an efficient social and market economy, as europe has always liked to call itself. i am therefore convinced that women must be guaranteed, by all possible means, the same treatment and the same professional opportunities as men. however, i cannot support the strategy proposed by mr nedelcheva with a positive vote because i believe that starting from the centrality of the problems experienced by a single ethnic group, rather than a systematic analysis of all the options, does not constitute a methodologically adequate and decisive approach.
in writing. - the financial crisis we are currently experiencing has disastrous repercussions on the unemployment rate and on the living conditions of our fellow citizens in general and of women in particular. it is enough to think about their working conditions, their access to employment, their position in our societies. in its 2010 report, the european commission rightly highlighted the challenges ahead for gender equality, stressing that this crisis must be seen as an opportunity to allow us to reconsider the specific roles of men and women in our societies, in particular through a strategy for their full integration into all policies. concrete and sustainable measures, particularly in the field of education, should enable us to achieve this ideal of equality. we stress the importance of promoting the participation of women in decision-making bodies, which are traditionally reserved for men. the promotion of equality also involves combating violence against women. it is important to stress the need to combat and condemn all forms of physical, psychological or sexual violence, whatever their severity. combating gender-based violence means launching awareness campaigns and educating children and young people about the dangers it poses.
in writing. the annual report on equality between women and men focuses this year on the effects of the economic crisis on women, emphasising the amplification of these effects when they affect pre-existing critical issues. mr nedelcheva has chosen the path of the proposal and not just of vindication and victimhood. the analysis of economic data on the female labour market, all with a minus sign, is taken as a starting point for promoting targeted action. the surveys show that women's greater socioeconomic weakness has an impact on the general economy and produces quantifiable losses for the system. this leads to a series of actions which, although aimed at reducing disparities, are aimed at the general public because they contain systemic measures. i do not agree with the part of the report which deals with the promotion of women's sexual rights, particularly where it reaffirms its intention to make abortion 'easier', especially in the light of the house's vote against mr silvestris' oral amendment to introduce a reference to the protection of the unborn child. this is a delicate subject which cannot be raised with slogans of dubious interpretation. i do not accept that women's freedom and the conquest of social spaces pass through abortion.
in writing. − the 2010 annual report on equality between women and men in the european union underlines the need for a european commitment to ensure gender equality in a time of economic crisis that risks undermining the efforts made so far to promote women's rights. unemployment and recession risk widening the gender gap in employment; the report by mrs nedelcheva aims to outline the points on which work must be done to avoid discrimination. ensure economic and financial justice for all citizens, including wages, incomes and pensions; work for an increase in the pink quota for better representation and guarantee personal rights. i believe, however, that in doing so the principle of subsidiarity must be respected and that certain national characteristics and peculiarities must be defended and safeguarded.
in writing. - this report too, although it starts from shared statements, slips into the recognition of particular categories of citizens, in this case roma women who are considered particularly disadvantaged because they are discriminated against. we are opposed to turning what are legitimate demands by women for attention and recognition in the field of employment, with equal participation in the labour market, in pay and in access to positions of responsibility, into racial discrimination. we do not accept that member states should pay special attention to women in the european roma inclusion strategy: firstly, because in a measure which talks about equality between women and men there is no reference to the roma, and secondly because we believe that if we are to speak of discriminated against, these are the citizens who are harmed by the often irregular presence of roma people. the vote will be taken on the request for an increase in the number of abortions and the imposition of pink quotas.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, women are increasingly at risk of poverty, especially in the case of categories of women with special needs, such as single mothers, disabled women and elderly women, who often receive salaries and pensions just above the minimum subsistence level. it is not necessary to repeat that in order to prevent and reduce the risk of poverty, equal participation of women and men in the labour market must be guaranteed. unfortunately, european women are four times more likely than men to be part-time workers, to have fixed-term contracts and are often part of that underground economy characterized by the absence of employment contracts. but the aspects of the feminization of poverty are not only related to work, but also to the lack of childcare and elderly care facilities. member states have the responsibility to implement specific programmes to promote the active inclusion or reintegration of women into the labour market and specific lifelong learning opportunities aimed at providing the necessary skills and qualifications. at the same time, women in disadvantaged backgrounds should be guaranteed equal access to public health systems, as well as to gynaecological and obstetrical care, decent housing, justice, sport and culture.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent economic and financial crisis has had a number of negative consequences which have directly affected the living and working conditions of citizens, and in particular of women. the situation of women is clearly shown by the statistics: about 17% of european women live in poverty. 2010 has been declared the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion', and i therefore believe that activities carried out in the context of this year should also take into account the risk of social exclusion experienced by women compared to men. i also believe that promoting a balance between work and private life, so that women who wish to do so can pursue their careers or work full time, is one of the key elements in combating poverty among women and reducing the risks to which they are exposed. the structural funds, and in particular the european social fund, are key instruments to help member states combat poverty and social exclusion. i therefore call the commission's attention to the need to co-finance specific programmes to promote the active integration or reintegration of women into the labour market and training courses aimed at obtaining specific vocational qualifications.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not because of the aims but because of the method indicated by my colleague that i did not intend to support this report with a positive vote. poverty is a systemic scourge for europe in 2011. in the face of the global economic crisis, some categories have certainly been hit harder than others, but that does not make me convinced that a gendered or sectoral approach is the ideal solution. on the contrary, a problem of this magnitude must be tackled by building virtuous circles which do not privilege some but which include all stakeholders.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted in this house on the very day when the centenary of the international women's day is being celebrated. according to recent figures, 17% of european women still live in poverty and, as if that were not enough, suffer from disadvantageous conditions in the labour market and social protection. at the same time, women's contribution to the development of the family, society and the economy is regularly underestimated and underpaid. according to the commission's annual report, women are more exposed to the risk of poverty and consequently to social exclusion, in particular older women, who in 2008 were at risk of poverty at 22% compared to 16% of older men, 35% of single parents and other categories of women such as those with disabilities or belonging to ethnic minorities. i particularly share the rapporteur's call for reconciling private and professional life or for further measures to support single mothers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is always appropriate to discuss, compare and find common solutions to the problems of women. but the report by my s&d colleague, rovanna plumb, is a constant reminder to the roma community. i do not therefore find this note appropriate, since it is certainly not in the interests of european women workers to deal only with roma women. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on such an important day, which reminds us of the importance of the role of women in modern society, it is our moral duty to support this report in the face of the thousands of women who are contributing in conditions of poverty. the poverty line, precarious employment, low pay, sexual discrimination in the workplace: these are unfortunately recurrent terms that not only today, but every day we would rather not hear and not see associated with the figure of women. unfortunately, the reality is different and the numbers speak for themselves. in all professional fields, in all economic realities, we continue to find phenomena which marginalize women through low pay, social exclusion and a marked difficulty in accessing a normal relationship life. older women, women with disabled children, women with disabilities, women who cannot find work: i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report and for the support he has given to the commission and to the members who voted in favour of this report, so that the term 'feminization of poverty' will not be used in the media and in european statistics in the future.
in writing. − the current financial crisis has specific negative consequences, which directly affect women's living and working conditions and their position in society. today, almost 17 percent of european women are living in poverty. the commission's policy strategy should be based on a comprehensive analysis of all gender aspects: we believe that their integration into the labour market is essential to combating poverty and social exclusion. the promotion of work-life balance, to enable women who so wish to pursue their careers or work full-time, is one of the key elements in reducing women's poverty and the risks to which they are exposed. we call for further support measures for working mothers, both by facilitating opportunities to find flexible forms of work to allow for fulfilling increased family commitments and by providing adequate services for children, the elderly and other dependants. we believe that the europe 2020 strategy must achieve gender mainstreaming to improve representation and equal participation in the labour market, breaking down patterns of segregation while ensuring the presence of women in the highest-ranking jobs.
in writing. - on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of international women's day, we are voting on two reports which deal with issues where women are still too often marginalised and excluded from society. women are traditionally more at risk of poverty, especially single mothers and women over 65. among the five measurable objectives proposed by the european commission for the eu 2020 strategy is the fight against poverty, which makes this report extremely timely, especially from the point of view of gender policies, in the light of the economic and financial crisis that is crushing europe. the vulnerability of women exposes them to the risk of poverty and social exclusion, and thus to loneliness, and this calls for the institution we represent to take action to implement the specific strategies and programmes mentioned in mr plumb's report.
in writing. - poverty and equal opportunities represent two inverse variables in an economic projection. actions aimed at the full activation of women also result in a reduction in overall poverty. in europe, more than 17 percent of the female population live in poverty. the economic and financial crisis has had and is likely to have an impact on these already dramatic figures. the fight against poverty is not always considered as part of gender policies, and this weakens their reach. the work of the relevant committees emphasizes the importance of taking account of these links and analyses possible actions on the basis of them. it appropriately places them within the eu 2020 strategy, which defines poverty as one of the five measurable objectives. the plumb report, which starts with the three dimensions of poverty - gender, generation and geography - reveals its extraordinary practical nature and, above all, its innovative approach in preparing a path that precedes the adoption of austerity measures to deal with the effects of the crisis. the seven areas of interest outlined in the report are well placed to facilitate the necessary systematic approach. the positive nature of the proposal will not leave the commission and the council indifferent, nor will the member states, from whom i expect a harmonious response.
in writing. i support the report on the face of women's poverty in the european union because it shows how women are the first victims of poverty. i call for concrete action by europe on reducing the gender pay gap. how long are we going to wait and accept that women are paid less than men? why should a woman work five years to earn what a man earns in four years, and above all why should she end up poorer because she has raised her children? i don't want to leave this company to my children and my grandchildren. the vagaries of women's working lives weigh heavily on them, especially when they reach retirement. it is important that europe should ensure that women are not further impoverished by promoting a genuine policy of equal pay.
in writing. - mr president, i am particularly struck by the poverty of elderly women who are alone. they have worked their whole lives, they have helped raise a family, if they have worked they receive insufficient pensions, if they have social pensions it is even worse. social security hasn't been very generous with them. maybe they've taken a career break to raise their kids, and part-time work has reduced their income over the course of their working lives. they may have had sick, elderly or disabled family members to care for them and social assistance was not adequate. it is certainly not an enviable condition. assistance and support programmes should be defined, also with the help of the european social fund. local public administrations, either directly or through ngos, should take up these issues and work with the regions to better finalise structural fund allocations. the fight against women's poverty must not stop at the desks of statistical offices, but must go down to the administrative level closest to the women who need it. in europe there are still too many women earning less than men, looking for work and services to help them raise their children, too many women who are victims of violence, too many immigrant girls who are sexually abused and too many, too many single, elderly, forgotten women.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the union needs a clear position and workable plans to combat the economic crisis. in this case, the aim is to protect women from the risk of poverty by preventing them from remaining a weaker social subject than men and thus less able to react to the crisis in the workplace. to achieve the eu 2020 poverty reduction strategy, women need to be guaranteed increased access to resources, improved labour policies, increased funding from the european social fund and the possibility to reconcile public and private life without having to give up the role of mother. as i have said in other reports voted on today, i believe that the principle of subsidiarity and certain national characteristics and peculiarities must be respected and safeguarded in the implementation of these recommendations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last night the afco committee voted by a large majority for parliament's opinion on the reform of the treaty to establish a stability mechanism. the text proposes an amendment to the amendment to the lisbon treaty, which lays down a procedure which, while safeguarding the intergovernmental nature of the fund, justifies the inclusion of the rule in the treaty and contains some clear proposals on the functioning of the mechanism, aimed at making it compatible with the tasks assigned to the european institutions by the treaties and with the need to have a real economic governance, which if it were intergovernmental simply would not work. to take up a metaphor which you, mr president, used in the last debate, the european parliament proposes that this intergovernmental train should be placed on the tracks and in a union convoy and that the commission should be given the role it should have in managing this convoy. how does the european commission assess parliament's proposals? are you prepared to help bring them to the negotiating table in the coming days? (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the question of turkey were a purely economic question, i can probably see why there would be no problems. there are serious problems, because the question of turkey is obviously not just an economic question. we would like to focus on the question of religious tolerance, which unfortunately is absent in turkey, not only because we can mention the sacrifices of some priests, including italian ones, such as monsignor luigi padovese or don andrea santoro, but also because, unfortunately, turkish delegates recently voted against a motion condemning violence against christians throughout the world at the council of europe. this surprises us and makes us wonder how we can accept a country that does not consider religious freedom one of its fundamental values. we also wonder how it is possible that erdogan's deputy, babacan, has said that the european union is a 'christian club'. what did you think you'd find? furthermore, do you not think that the problem is not the "christian european club", but the lack of religious rights inside turkey?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit that the excellent work done by mrs oomen-ruijten has us engaged in a debate which is nevertheless accompanied by a good deal of hypocrisy when we talk about turkey. we cannot overcome this hypocrisy, and perhaps we could overcome it better if we considered some general elements of the scenario. the first is that we must recognize that we have completely failed or perhaps never tried to initiate a real strategy in relation to the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean. the question of turkey is deeply connected with this. when we were on mission in tunisia a few days ago, the only islamist party, al-nahda, told us with sincerity that they were inspired by recep tayyip erdogan's akp, so in a way they are looking to turkey to have a flank towards europe, but we do not know whether that flank is willing, europe, to take it into account. we have to ask ourselves what is worth doing about turkey: is it worth being honest to the end and moving quickly towards privileged partnerships that cover the whole mediterranean area? or is it worth continuing to pursue, to postpone indefinitely, so that the turks, perhaps, in their great pride, can say no to us forever and further complicate the situation in the mediterranean? i think we should be the ones to decide, not wait for others to decide. we have a clear responsibility, let us take it to the limit, let us have the courage to say yes or no and we shall see that this situation develops in a positive way.
member of the commission. − madam president, it has indeed been a good and useful debate, reflecting a number of opinions and views. but, as many of you underlined, if turkey indeed fulfils all relevant accession obligations and we remain committed and serious, then we will be able to avoid most of the frustration some of you referred to and move forward. i also agree with those who are saying quite clearly that moving on the additional protocol, the ankara agreement, and achieving progress on the comprehensive settlement talks on cyprus would create a momentum for the accession negotiations. i also agree with those who indicated that the rules of the game should not be changed in the middle of the game. but let me make it absolutely clear. for me this is not a game; for me this is a serious process. i strongly believe that, at the end of this process, most european union and turkish citizens will see clearly the benefits of a new and modern turkey being a member of the european union. my second remark would be that this year’s report is indeed very balanced. what i very much appreciate, and what the rapporteur has managed to a large extent to take into account, as has the debate today, is the need to look at the bigger picture and not just present this house with a list of incidents and problems. my third point is that i also agree with those who are making it absolutely clear that the key to a number of the chapters is in the hands of our turkish partners. i am one of those who would like to see chapters such as chapter 15 on energy and, especially, chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights, opened. this is very important, particularly chapter 23. i think it would be in the interests of both turkey and the european union to work on establishing a track record on these important issues. it has been said that 14 chapters are frozen because of the ankara protocol. let me make a personal comment. i think there is a distinction between those chapters which are frozen unilaterally and those which are frozen based on the recommendation of the commission, because of the non-commitment of turkey towards customs union, and then agreed by the member states by consensus. chapters 23 and 15 are among those being frozen unilaterally. as a last point let me also address an issue which is very much on our minds these days, and that is the situation of media freedom in turkey. last thursday i issued a clear statement to make absolutely sure that a message is sent to our turkish colleagues that turkish law does not sufficiently guarantee freedom of expression in line with the european convention on human rights and the european court of human rights, and to make it absolutely clear that turkey urgently needs to amend its legal framework to improve the exercise of freedom of the press both in practice, and in a significant manner. i raised this issue in very much the same terms with mr davutoğlu, the turkish minister of foreign affairs, last friday. but let me also make the following comment. i think it is important not to shy away from commenting critically where we see problems. but it is also important to help turkey put the legislation into such a form, such order, that it corresponds to the above-mentioned convention. i am thinking about how to involve both the council of europe and the oecd in this process, and i will be informing the house about the results of these consultations and the way i recommend we proceed.
the president of the council. - officer, please. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, thank you very much for this excellent debate. we have heard a lot of arguments for and against, both in terms of turkish readiness and the whole accession process. this shows how complex the situation is and how difficult mrs. ria oomen-ruiten's job has been. i think he did a great job, and he produced a report that is a great reflection of how difficult it is to assess the situation and turkey's preparedness. but there are points, and i think this debate reflected those points, where there is agreement. i think there is agreement not only between the parties here, but also between the commission and the council. the first is that we need a european turkey and we are interested in helping this process. this is a strategic partnership. i cannot stress enough how important it is that a small european country be our friend. there is no dispute that this is a conditional process and turkey has to meet its obligations, all the commitments that it has made and in order to move forward in the negotiations, the benchmarks, the expectations that we have set. and there is no question that turkey should strive for good neighbourly relations. this is a matter that cannot be called into question in any accession negotiations. what we've seen is that there's a debate about how much progress has been made, how much turkey has accomplished. i think we can't question the achievements of constitutional reform, or that we're seeing progress, if not complete, but partial, on minority issues, for example. no one doubted that there was a lot to be done, just to mention again the issue of freedom of the press, the status of women, or the functioning of the judiciary. if we look at how we can breathe life into the accession negotiations, let us look at the room for manoeuvre. commissioner füle also mentioned that there are 13 chapters open, we were able to close only one, and 16 chapters are frozen, we cannot move forward on them at this moment. de facto, we can deal with three chapters, competition, public procurement and social policy and employment. the best preparation of these is for the competition chapter, and a lot has been done under the belgian presidency to open this chapter, and the commission is working very hard with our maximum support to open this chapter at least under the hungarian presidency. for this, turkey must once again meet a number of conditions. i'm confident that we're going to make progress on this, and i really don't want to see another month of us not being able to open a chapter. a number of people have asked or indicated that they would like to see progress on the visa issue. let me be honest with you. the hungarian presidency would encourage the commission to start the dialogue, but we all know that the council meeting was not clear on this point, and several member states expressed their doubts. i think that as the hungarian presidency, it would be in our interest to start a dialogue. others spoke about the situation regarding religious freedom and the persecution of christians. the council has been criticised for not addressing this. it is lady ashton's prerogative as head of the foreign affairs council, but let me tell you, in january, the foreign affairs council put the matter on the agenda. there was no agreement at the time, but the february foreign affairs council did produce a resolution condemning the persecution of all religious minorities and specifically of christians, so the council did deal with this issue. and finally, let me ask you a question about ourselves. because we were talking about what turkey has done, whether it has done enough and is working properly to join. but let's also think about what we're dealing with. and if we are honest with ourselves, we see that europe is not in the age of inclusion. we look at what's happening in north africa, but if you look at what's happening within the european union or in our even more immediate neighbourhood, turkey is one of the five candidate countries, but there are four other countries. how much can we help the processes? how ready are we to conclude accession negotiations with croatia? how ready are we to allow romania and bulgaria into the schengen area? how ready are we to lift europe's beleaguered community, the roma? reception is on the agenda in a variety of contexts. europe has turned a little inward. let me put this out there with a little bit of honesty. there's an expansion fatigue. we need to be concerned about our own public perception of how open we are to these problems. i think maybe we should be a little bit more forward-thinking. if we think about what is in the long-term interest of the european union, to retain the attraction of the european union, both to its citizens and to our immediate neighbours, whether it's turkey or all the other states in north africa, i think we should bring back a more inclusive european union. of course, this cannot be done without conditions and without sparing the work that is expected of all candidates. i think it would be a very serious moment for the european union if turkey lost interest in the european union.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the process of european integration in montenegro.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the excellent results achieved so far in the process of european integration, there are still gaps in areas which are essential for the development of a democratic system and the full establishment of the rule of law. despite progress achieved through amendments to the legislation on criminal proceedings and other primary rules, some substantial delays remain. i am referring in particular to the urgency of ensuring the accountability and efficiency of the judiciary and its transparency, as well as that of the prosecutors and their independence from political interference. in this respect, substantial changes are required to the system of appointment of judges and prosecutors, putting an end to the practice of appointing them only in parliament and within the government. finally, (...) to improve access to justice and free legal aid.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, our discussion has proved productive in reconfirming the next steps necessary for montenegro to achieve further progress on its european union path. as acknowledged in the draft resolution we discussed today and in the commission opinion of last november, montenegro has achieved a lot but needs to deliver substantially more. the country has now entered a decisive stage. tangible results are needed in order for montenegro to be able to move to the next stage of european integration. the momentum created by candidate status should not be lost; reforms should be pursued with determination. the objectives are well known: it is up to montenegro to meet the required priorities and, once ready, to engage in the negotiation process. the pace of montenegro’s progress towards european union membership depends on its own achievements, and that should explain my hesitation in prejudging an enlargement calendar as many of you have invited me to do. but i am positive that with our support, but mainly with the determination of its people, montenegro can make real progress towards the european union.
the president of the council. - madam president, this is officer. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i'd like to thank you for this very fruitful exchange of ideas. it is encouraging to see that the european parliament continues to give its full support to montenegro's european integration aspirations. i would like to reassure you that the concerns and actions you raised during the exchange are on the agenda of the dialogue that the eu institutions are conducting on montenegro's european perspective and that we are endeavouring to address them appropriately. there have been several references, questions about what happens between the granting of candidate status and the start of negotiations, so why not start negotiations right now, immediately. as you may know, the commissioner has spoken about it, and i have also mentioned that now that we have this candidate status, the commission has set conditions which montenegro must fulfil. there are seven such conditions. the commission will assess progress in these areas and will put it on the council's table in the autumn to decide whether we are at a stage where we can start negotiations. i thank you again for the debate and i think that this is also proof that the european parliament is ready to send a positive signal to the western balkans. a message that proves that the enlargement process is ongoing, exists and must be authentic. this means that progress can be made with each country in the region on a tailored and performance-based basis. in the case of montenegro, this means the answers to the questionnaire received have been prepared and will now be assessed by the commission, and in the case of croatia, it means that the commission has completed its homework and is preparing in every possible way to conclude the negotiations during the hungarian presidency. this is how we keep the process authentic, and this is how we can get our immediate neighbours, the real european countries, on the right track so that they can eventually join the union at the right level of preparedness.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2011.
the agenda includes the report by lívia járóka, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu roma inclusion strategy (2010/2276 ((ini)) (a7-0043/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with the report when it says that the commission should dictate policy on roma to the member states. this is not respecting the principle of subsidiarity, if it is true, as it is true, that these interventions must be designed and implemented at local, regional and national level, since they then have an impact on the territories and the indigenous peoples. inclusion and non-discrimination: i am perfectly in agreement with this, but i am still waiting to hear from commissioner reding when the roma camps will finally be allowed in his country, the grand duchy of luxembourg, which, if i am not mistaken, are not allowed. this relationship seems a bit unbalanced, because many leaders ask for support from roma, whether they are men, women, children, old people (...). none of them invokes any measure to punish, for example, very severely those roma who have anti-social behaviour. who, if not certain roma family heads, are preventing roma children from going to school? i think these are issues that, in defying political correctness, we must have the courage to speak out clearly. it is not with the syrup of goodness, but with serious, surgical measures, that the bubble of racketeering, child exploitation and organ trafficking can be cut.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with satisfaction and pride that we are discussing this strategy this evening. i am satisfied because mrs járóka has done a very good job and i thank her for that and i am proud because it is an initiative that we as the epp strongly wanted. it is a good report because it clearly condemns all forms of discrimination and racism against the roma and we like it because it promotes genuine integration with a good cultural approach. we like it because alongside the list of rights, we are reminded of certain needs. we also dealt with this in the opinion we gave as the culture committee, and i am thinking in particular of everything that concerns the education of roma children, in which we recall that education is a right but also a duty, in which families must also be involved. we also recall that the future strategy for the roma minority should focus on education as the main tool for promoting social inclusion and that, alongside the enhancement of roma culture, it is important to recognise that roma should strive to learn the customs, the cultures of the peoples with whom they live, in order to foster real integration. perhaps the only thing missing from this report is the reference to directive 38/2004 on the free movement of community citizens. we have been waiting for some time for the commission to explain how to put it into practice and we now need to know what the right and proper obligation is for the member states to do. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for all she has done.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr lange, for his work. i know that it is not easy in a chamber as articulated as this one, with so many parliamentary groups, to arrive at a synthesis which will allow the debate on industrial policy to be concluded in a positive way. i would therefore like to thank you for the work you have done, because if we really want to put action in favour of the real economy at the heart of our political action in favour of the social and market economy, we must work together, commission, parliament and council. i share his call for greater cohesion on the part of the member states, but an encouraging signal comes from the council, which nevertheless supported the commission's position and also in the countries where it had the opportunity to present the document on industrial policy there was a willingness, albeit in the diversity of the different countries, to participate in joint action, with an industrial policy governance, without wanting to impose choices on the part of the community on individual member states, but trying to coordinate their policy. this seems to me to be a choice which goes in the direction of your request, but which confirms that europe needs its own industry to face the immediate challenges of getting out of the crisis. we cannot expect to overcome the present difficult situation, aggravated by the crisis in the mediterranean area, without a firm action in favour of industrial policy, of enterprise policy, because these are the only ways of allowing us to develop and create new jobs. the report you have prepared, mr president, rightly emphasizes the economic, environmental and social challenges, in short the sustainability of our industrial policy, and puts sustainability on the same level as competitiveness, because these two dimensions are closely linked, and i am convinced that in today's world these two aspects cannot exist without each other. to do this we must also have a modern and competitive industry which finally ends the old way of conducting industrial policy. what does it mean to have a modern industry? it means having an industry that is efficient in the use of resources, in the consumption of energy, in the emission of greenhouse gases, and therefore an economy that has the green economy as its objective, going through the path of the greener economy, but it must also be a responsible industry, which faces the difficulties on the basis of a constant and fruitful dialogue with the social partners. i think we should also send a strong signal, reminding ourselves that the industrial model of 2010 cannot be an industrial model based on state aid, just as european industry cannot fail to rely on innovation and research to be competitive in an era of global challenge. that is why the european commission has presented, before the document on industrial policy, the document on innovation policy, which i believe is absolutely essential for the development of a serious industrial policy, which also goes in the direction of identifying paths in the field of research and innovation as regards raw materials. it is no coincidence that one of the innovation partnerships indicated by the commission is specifically about raw materials, to find actions through research for recycling and substitution of raw materials. so it is clear that - also because we will be talking about rare earths in the next debate - it is clear that innovation, raw materials and industrial policy are part of a single strategy, as is the revision of the small business act, in my view. so by the european commission's implementation of this series of political and legislative interventions we are demonstrating that there is a desire to implement political action in favour of industry and business. as far as governance and industrial policy are concerned, the process seems to me to be well under way - as we said earlier - both within the commission and in the member states. as you know, president barroso entrusted me with the chairmanship of the commissioners' group on industrial policy at the beginning of my term of office. i have already met the group twice, once before the adoption of the communication to discuss the political priorities, and a second time to discuss the practical implementation of the communication with particular regard to the competitiveness test and the standardisation strategy. i consider the commissioners' group to be a privileged instrument for guiding the political process and ensuring the coherence of industrial policy initiatives. as far as the member states are concerned, i think the reaction has been positive. as i said, on 10 december we launched the first cooperation exercises with the hungarian presidency on access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises, which will be followed by other similar exercises in close cooperation with the member states. we will continue to provide you with the necessary elements for continued cooperation between parliament and the commission. before concluding, mr president, let me make a point of emphasizing the importance of supporting women entrepreneurs. it is no coincidence that today is 8 march, and i have always said that we need more women entrepreneurs, but once they have decided to commit, we must also be able to give them at least good advice. that is what we have decided to do by providing for ad hoc action in the context of the review of the small business act. the network of female entrepreneurial ambassadors that we have already launched will continue to exist, but we want to go beyond awareness raising, we want women entrepreneurs to be able to get good advice from experts, and that's why we are going to launch a very short-term consultation to support some initiatives to provide mentors to new women entrepreneurs who want to do so. this person will be able to give them practical advice on starting up and then running the business. the aim is to implement this initiative in at least 10 member states and then extend it to all the other 27.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, industrial policy is a key element for growth and employment in our regions and territories. in a time of severe economic crisis, the commission's initiative to provide europe with a common medium- and long-term approach and to give full support to mr lange's brilliant work is therefore welcome, for at least three reasons. the first is that the report takes an approach to industrial development which does not compartmentalize industrial and business interests into sectoral market chains but brings them together in accordance with common objectives. the second reason is that it underlines the importance of regional structures through more effective support for innovation poles, networks, knowledge transfer, research and skills development and infrastructure development. thirdly, and lastly, because it highlights the role and function of small and mediumsized enterprises, which look to europe to get them out of a crisis which is likely to seriously jeopardize their future.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the economic and financial crisis has made many people rediscover the importance of industry. the commission's efforts, mr vice-president, have not always been able to bring this about. many instruments, not least the strategy 2020 documents or some recently approved or under discussion free trade agreements, are still too much geared towards the services economy, towards the strengthening and development of services, especially financial, banking and insurance. on the contrary, the real economy, as you said, sends us opposite signals. production and exports are increasing and we are seeing a reversal of the trend towards relocation. we must encourage these signals, no major economy in the world can ignore the central value of industry. hence the need to complete the internal market, to speed up the implementation of strong initiatives to support innovation and research, technology transfer, product traceability, protection of intellectual property and the promotion of european production, as well as effective anti-dumping rules and genuine reciprocity in bilateral negotiations. this report is moving in that direction and i thank mr lange and all those who have worked on it very much.
i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this area and that it is now taking the necessary steps to ensure that the community's industrial policy is properly implemented. i am grateful to the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and for the communication from vice-president tajani. this choice means a few important things, the first: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly: the recovery of industrial sectors in europe also means that our competitiveness is not at stake in the financial and service sectors, but here again, and it is not too late to do so, we can aim at a challenge for europe to find competitiveness with the rest of the world in industrial sectors. third point: it has been said that the new industrial policy is focused on factors, rather than sectors, it is focused on factors and instruments which can really promote new enterprises and new capacity for maintenance and updating. i think it is important to highlight these new factors that need to be addressed: the commissioner has already announced that he will be taking further initiatives on the subject of credit, raw materials, energy costs, innovation, research and the need to increase the capacity of europe to transfer the results of research and innovation within companies, in new products and in new ways of organising production. we must make the most of a very specific fabric of our europe, in some countries in particular, that of smes, the quality of enterprises, the quality of products, the specific nature of industry in europe. i think we need to rediscover these, these manufacturing traditions, these manufacturing roots in many countries, to innovate and change them. finally, the issue of territory, which is very important. european policies succeed if they cross paths and find a territory capable of dealing with them. so we thank mr lange and look forward to working very well with the commission to get to concrete results in a short time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president tajani, this report has already in its title the keystone, that is, the reference to an industrial policy. in europe, in recent years, if not decades, there has been a growing political disinterest in this area, in the name of an exasperated letting go of the markets, convinced that everything would be regulated autonomously. political action means setting rules to help our enterprises to be present on the market, and i am pleased to note that this report makes particular reference to small and mediumsized enterprises and the manufacturing sector, which has too often been neglected in the past. the instruments proposed are moving in the right direction, namely administrative simplification and easier access to credit. i would also like to stress the part concerning fair competition with third countries, because in the past we have been too permissive in this area and entire fundamental sectors, such as tuscan textiles - and i know this well because i am from prato - have been brought to their knees by unfair competition which must be prevented and tackled at the source.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must now, more than ever, rethink its industrial policy, including some of the choices it has made in the recent past. this flagship initiative linked to the europe 2020 strategy was therefore useful and timely, and i thank the commission and commissioner tajani in particular for this. i also thank the rapporteur, mr lange, for his work and mrs grossetête, who, on behalf of the ppe, has made a significant contribution to strengthening the positions put forward by the commissioner. i think that the commission should be able to make a contribution by introducing amendments to highlight the role of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are widely regarded as the strong link in the chain of european basic industry, the one which is best able to withstand crises and the one which is best able to innovate at competitive costs. i believe that the role played by thousands of small and mediumsized european businesses should be supported by responding to the difficulties and constraints they have repeatedly highlighted: i am talking about better access to credit, the possibility of more transparent and cheaper participation in public procurement, but above all about general administrative simplification, which is widely regarded as the real revolution that this continent needs today. i am pleased that the commission has highlighted the issue of the efficient and responsible use of raw materials, and i think it is important that we should discuss rare earths in the near future. the attention paid to the protection of intellectual property is significant. i see a pathway at last that i hope will lead us soon to defining standards and guarantees that will apply throughout the european union. it means giving hope, especially to young people, with answers that europeans often suggest.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the lange report is a balanced text, which has the main merit of focusing its analysis on some crucial elements, in particular the relaunch of european industrial policy and the shift of focus from financial activities to the real economy. however, services directly or indirectly linked to the enterprise are an integral part of it. some criticisms and some suggestions: as regards paragraph 89 on enhanced cooperation on the european patent, i believe, commissioner tajani, that for us italians in particular, the single european patent is essential and indispensable. the deadlock created by enhanced cooperation can, in my view, only be overcome by the european patent being granted in english alone, because it would set an unprecedented precedent with the three languages. second consideration: the lack of proposals for innovative financing. the text often mentions the need to move quickly towards the construction of transeuropean infrastructures, which are crucial for the development of the continent, but it does not say much about how to finance these networks. we have just today approved an own-initiative report which analyses in depth the system of project bonds in a ppp system, so as to offer guarantees on securities issued by companies set up to build and operate the same infrastructures, mr audy has already mentioned a few examples. the lack of a link between the european union's industrial policy and strategic projects for the union, such as galileo, iter and so on. there must be a greater link between research and innovation. commissioner tajani, i believe that the challenge you face is vital to maintaining the social context. the weak recovery we are seeing does not absorb the unemployment created in the last three years. unfortunately, we must act in time and quickly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate commissioner tajani on the work he has done and also the rapporteurs. i am in favour of this important report, which is the european parliament's contribution to the debate on european industrial policy. there are many positive elements, which i strongly support. firstly, i believe that every effort must be made to reassert the central role of european industry on the world stage and to support in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, which are a key pillar of the internal market. i also fully agree with the report on the need and urgency of establishing a european trademark system to improve the competitiveness of businesses and finally to enable european consumers to make an informed choice of products normally associated with a reputation for quality. unfortunately, it is well known that some states in the council have been opposed to this specific point since 2005. we must try to overcome this blockage, however, on the basis of the strongly favourable position of the european parliament on several occasions, and this is important during the legislative process of various community acts. the voice of the european citizens cannot be ignored again, especially when it is based on such solid foundations: it is about making our policies more democratic. a second appeal is certainly to young entrepreneurs, whom the commissioner has mentioned several times in her report, because i believe they are the future of industrial policy. i would like to say that i am still somewhat perplexed by certain aspects, such as the explicit reference to new legislative measures on resource efficiency, the creation of a national task force to manage restructuring processes and, above all, the enhanced cooperation on european patents.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on industrial policy is comprehensive, it analyses all the weaknesses of the system and it shows us the way to respecting the principles of the social market economy. but we must realistically admit that up to now europe has not had its own industrial policy. in fact, the productivity of the manufacturing system in europe is in difficulty, while the emerging countries are not only growing, but are investing heavily in research and technology. to increase industry and employment in europe, we need to put in place, in addition to the current rules, extraordinary measures, even to review the distribution of competences between the member states and the union. in a new cultural vision of industrial relations, redistributive policies and systems must also be reviewed, placing the model of worker participation in the company's profits at the centre of the reflection. the 2020 strategy sets targets that the european union cannot afford to miss and to achieve all the levels envisaged europe must meet the challenge of industrial growth by strengthening training and research in support of small and medium-sized enterprises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, the deep international economic crisis has hit industry most of all. the argument that markets should regulate themselves has been shown to be wrong. europe has lacked the capacity to give a clear answer and to make an economic analysis. europe must therefore have a strong, competitive and diversified industrial base. the new european industrial policy must be forward-looking, with a global approach to its policies, aimed at reaffirming the centrality of industry, especially manufacturing, which must continue to be the beating heart of our economy and trigger new dynamics of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i agree with mr lange and i congratulate him on his report which takes all these elements into account and offers interesting ideas.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have already given some indications, but i would like to make a number of clarifications. first, the wto. what exactly are we doing at the world trade organisation in relation to the initiative that was already taken in 2009 but which, as far as i know, concerned magnesium and bauxite? do we have a wto procedure on rare earths? is it possible and do we do it alone or can we do it together with the united states and japan, as i think would be desirable? secondly, you said that we must increase supply from other fields, including european ones. is there a role for greenland? what exactly are we thinking about? thirdly, the recovery of rare earths from recycling. are we moving towards a european discipline of so-called urban mining? there will be a directive, a regulation, what is planned in this regard? fourthly, will there be any specific provisions for studies and research, for the development of research, in the eighth framework programme? in addition, as regards the storage system, will there be common european standards for storage in this case too? finally, to what extent is the issue being addressed bilaterally with china in the context of the high-level economic and trade dialogue and in the negotiations we are having on the new partnership and cooperation agreement with that country?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament because this debate gives strength to the action which the european commission - and especially the barroso ii commission - is taking to solve the delicate problem of rare materials. as mr scholz has rightly pointed out, the european commission has taken decisive action since the madrid meeting, and not just announcements, but concrete actions. when i speak of concrete action, i mean the drawing up of a list of 14 rare commodities on which we must act, a list which i fear will have to be extended. in addition, the first agreement with the african union involved several months of work and was concluded with an agreement within the african union-european union action plan, which sees africa directly involved in joint action with our union and the commission, which concerns both what we can do within the union for an analysis of our needs, and an analysis of the real possibilities of extractive activity in africa, the possible realization of a geological service and the project to create the infrastructure of the trans-african networks alongside the mines from which the extractive industry can multiply. the agreement with the russian federation to put agreements on raw materials on the agenda is another concrete result, it is not just an announcement, two meetings have been held. the european commission's document on raw materials is not an announcement, it is a text approved by the commission which sets out a clear and precise strategy, as i have said, based on three concrete pillars on which we intend to continue to work. the decision to set up an innovation partnership linked to an action involving private individuals - and i hope parliament and the other institutions will also do so - on innovation and research to identify strong actions on recycling with concrete results and on substitution is not an announcement, but it is concrete action by the european commission, it is a request that has been approved by the college and is therefore part of the commission's strategy with regard to innovation. as far as the wto is concerned, we will of course continue to work towards a diplomatic solution. the latin american trip is another concrete action, not another announcement, because trips on such sensitive subjects require dedicated preparation which must then lead to concrete results. of course, we shall not miss the opportunity to inform parliament of what has been done. as regards certain areas of europe where it is possible to check whether the raw materials are underground, i am thinking of greenland, the barents sea, and other areas in northern europe, it is necessary to check whether extractive activity is possible, whether it is economically viable. however, we are ready to support any initiative to test any research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as far as the wto is concerned, i am responsible for the raw materials issue for the industrial part. the trade side is the responsibility of commissioner de gucht, who has already made it very clear that he intends to defend the interests of the eu, as is the case in the commission document on raw materials, paragraph 5.2. as regards the wto proceedings for which commissioner de gucht is responsible, we have, as i said in the course of the debate, initiated a procedure with mexico and the united states for nine raw materials, which do not include rare earths. the study is already at an advanced stage of completion, so the conclusions will also be decisive in helping the commission to decide what initiatives to take on the subject of rare earths. we are evaluating the situation in order to identify the most appropriate instruments in this area. as regards the recycling of rare earths and the question raised by mr rinaldi in his speech, i can tell you what we intend to do as the european commission on recycling. the current legislation covers 40% of the waste produced in the union. the commission has proposed to significantly increase the recycling targets for electrical and electronic waste containing rare earths, as proposed by commissioner potočnik, which is not my own proposal. other actions are planned to improve the treatment of products and to facilitate their recycling at the end of their life. there is already legislation in place and commissioner potočnik intends to continue to work in this direction. as regards industrial policy action in relation to rare earths and raw materials, i intend to go on, not making promises, because i am not used to making promises, i am used to keeping the commitments i make, especially those i make before parliament, as i have done since i won the confidence of the committees to which i have presented myself, and i intend to go on, i intend to keep all the commitments i have made without making announcements, but trying to give concrete answers to the needs of european companies and citizens, also in this delicate sector of industrial supply.
in writing. dear mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rare earths are a key element for the european economy. following the publication of the european commission's raw materials initiative, we must work to ensure that an ambitious common strategy for this sector is rapidly defined. it is essential to avoid total european dependence on the current monopoly of china, which now holds 97% of the production of these metals, which are vital for the hi-tech industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's resources are used to the full. it is therefore urgent that the european union invests more resources in technological research, in particular to extract rare earths from e-waste more easily and cheaply. just think, for example, that from a proper recovery of one ton of mobile phones, you could extract up to 350 grams of gold. the path to ensuring a sustainable supply of these elements is still long and cannot be developed without greater cooperation with resource-rich countries through strategic partnerships and ongoing relationships. finally, i hope that timely measures will be taken to deal with the rise in the prices of these strategically important materials for european industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right man at the right time. mr cohn-bendit said: gaddafi is a criminal and he made deals with berlusconi. i say that gaddafi is a criminal, he has made deals with the european commission under romano prodi, with the italian government under d'alema, with the labour government under tony blair and with a hundred other governments. gaddafi is a criminal who has been at the head of a state for more than 20 years that remains strategic and crucial to the interests, the interests, the interests of half the world. we must have the realism to say this, otherwise how can we get our hands on the marshall plan that mr schulz has mentioned? the marshall plan was there, the americans gave us the money, but when they gave it to us they demanded that the european governments expel the communists from the politics of their countries, and they dictated the conditions. what conditions do we intend to impose on the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean to commit themselves to a marshall plan? we are not going to replace the dictators of these years with other dictators to further our interests, or are we going to use our marshall plan to develop healthy, strong institutions that are an echo of what is happening in civil society and what has been happening in these countries in recent days? that is the real question we must ask ourselves and the proposals we must make, including the no-fly zone, the proposals we must make to the council, including a patrol of the libyan coast, which is europe's responsibility and not the american ships in the gulf of sirte. this must be the appropriate response of europe at this time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the nature of this debate allows me, mrs ashton, to remind you that the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean concluded its work last week in rome, indicating some paths that it would be useful for the european commission to take again, particularly where it suggests how to support the processes of democratic transition under way. i therefore call on the commission to follow developments in tunisia closely. this country is objectively a beacon of democracy and a reference point for the whole region. in the case of libya, we must be fully aware that the decision by a part of the international community to end relations with the gaddafi regime has consequences, especially in view of the fact that this regime is proving to be more resilient than those of ben ali and mubarak. this means that now, at a crucial time in politics, we must act with credibility, seriousness and consistency on four points: i understand the suggestion of many people, but we need an ashton plan rather than a marshall plan. a european-level immigration and asylum policy; a deterrence policy including the closure of airspace; full support for those who oppose the gaddafi regime. it is up to you, mrs ashton, and to your foreign policy in relations with the council in the coming days, to take these points into account, also to avoid european foreign policy itself being caught off guard again by the events which are changing the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing and widespread uprisings we are witnessing in the mediterranean at this stage certainly express a strong desire for democratic participation, especially on the part of young people, whom facebook and twitter are pushing towards a different dimension more in line with their aspirations. the mediterranean is a region which is more than ever plagued by the bloody violence of dictators with whom, it must be said, all the world powers have had relations over time. some questions: the european union must not forget that the mediterranean is a region which is in a state of humanitarian emergency, which is protecting the dignity of refugees, and at the same time remember that this emergency could soon turn into a health emergency, an excessive concentration of displaced people without adequate health care, an end to violence, the no-fly zone hypothesis, a different and new solidarity, mr president, mrs ashton, for a mediterranean policy which really looks at the important pool of people who insist on coming to the mediterranean, a review of frontex and, why not, remind the council that there is no such thing today, that there are two directives on the protection of seasonal workers and on cross-border transfers between companies of third-country nationals, which could also be a response of a labour-intensive nature to this exceptional need that we must face with greater consistency.
now we're going to start the catch-the-eye. i want to warn you right away that i have 19 requests for intervention, but i cannot evade all of them, we can only accept five or six requests. i do not wish to offend the other members, but the debate has gone on for a long time, we have had a very long introductory report by vice-president ashton and we cannot influence the subsequent debate. so if you'll excuse me, i'll give the floor to the first to sign up, with good representation of all the groups, of course.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lady ashton, you have shown great courage in this case, as some have already said, in taking the bull by the horns, but i think there are a number of fundamental steps. meanwhile, you spoke of bringing the guilty to justice. we call them by name, we must bring gaddafi to justice. he also talked about violence. i think it is appropriate to say that another genocide is taking place in those territories. we cannot continue to do as the ostriches do, burying our heads in the sand. i think the first thing we should do is to recognize the libyan national council, a transitional council. we must have a partner, we cannot continue to talk only about humanitarian aid which is being reduced to the last minute. of course, what we have to do is to ask loudly for a no-fly zone. we cannot continue to accept the veto of china and russia, dictatorial countries. china censoring the web, russia killing journalists like anna politkovskaya. i think the first thing to do at this point is to really start setting some clear goals, to recognize the libyan national council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must of course acknowledge our grave mistakes in the west. we in italy made the mistake of considering gaddafi our "son of a bitch", as president roosevelt would have said, but he was simply one of the many sons of "..." who rule their peoples and who today even shoot, make shoot at their peoples. why is there not a single voice here in the european parliament pointing out the responsibility of the african heads of state and government, who until yesterday morning considered him a brother, who have belittled him, who have promoted him to the un as a leading representative in the defence of human rights, even introducing him to the self-celebration of the king of kings of african countries, or am i the wrong person? now europe is making another mistake, pretending to ignore a clear danger, that of a great exodus of somalis, eritreans and others pushing from the borders of libya. we must tackle this with great energy, the marshall plan to help these people, not sending weapons, the marshall plan involving the small and medium-sized enterprise system. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
before i give the floor to vice-president ashton for her reply, i would like to inform you that two representatives of the libyan national transitional council, dr mahmoud jebril ibrahim el-welfali and dr ali aziz al-eisawi, are present in the gallery and we welcome them. the intensity of the applause is a sign of the closeness and solidarity of the european parliament and of the strong support which emerged from the debate for the cause of freedom and democracy of the libyan community. thank you and good luck, we're neighbors. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for what has been an important and, i think, very significant debate in this parliament. the common theme, of course, is the desire to see change in libya that puts the wishes of the people at the forefront of the energy of the european union and the international community. i think mr schulz said it first, but it was repeated very often: we need to be very clear-headed about what we do and very determined on what we should do. we have to make sure, first of all, that the humanitarian aid and support goes in and gets to the right places. we are in touch with médecins sans frontières and the icrc all the way through the country from benghazi to tripoli. but i know from my discussions that there are areas where it is exceptionally difficult to get aid and medicines into the country because of the fighting that is going on and because people cannot get through. this is something that mrs georgieva, as commissioner for humanitarian aid, is working on and mrs amos in the un is also coordinating efforts from there. the good news is that in some places we are getting messages that they are coping well and support is getting through, but there is, of course, much to do. i have also listened to what honourable members have said about the issues of refugees. we have worked hard with member states to try and support getting people home. for a lot of refugees who arrived at the tunisian border, their home was egypt, and some member states have been working closely with the tunisians to provide transport by sea or by plane to get people back home, and also to watch over those who will be heading back to africa. but there is much more to do. my belief is that, if we can make the country more stable, people can stay at home – which is where they want to be. so one of the challenges for the eu – and i am very open about this – is that by providing stability in our southern neighbourhood, we enable people to stay where they wish to stay, with economic prosperity and democracy, rather than feeling that they have to flee because of violence, lack of opportunity or other issues. then there is this whole question of a no-fly zone and the role of military options. i indicated the work on what we described as prudent planning that has been going on with the political and security committee (cops) and which continued last night. those discussions are referred to in our discussions with the united nations, which i have also indicated are ongoing, and nato, where i will attend a meeting tomorrow. of course they are done in conjunction with our partners. the arab league will discuss a no-fly zone on saturday. but what i am also very mindful of is something that the secretary-general of the arab league said to my delegation visiting him yesterday: we have to define what we need, because a no-fly zone by definition means different things to different people. ensuring that whatever is done can be done properly is something i think this house would be very keen to see. we have to be sure that whatever options are taken, they are taken with the full knowledge of what we are doing and with the support of the people who are going to be affected by that. in that context i refer again to the need for our continued discussions and dialogues with the african union and with the arab league. we could have a big debate – and perhaps we should – about a subject that i started to write about in the press, which is isolationism versus engagement. it is a real challenge, and what i would say to the gentleman who held up the photos is, of course if you are the president of the european council and you go as president to the african summit which is held in libya, you will find that there is a picture of the president with gaddafi. of course. there are pictures of many people. there was a picture shown in the same group of our esteemed alde group leader. there are pictures that you can take on many occasions where those of us who are given positions of responsibility have to engage with people who we probably would not wish to. so i think it is unfair to show a picture of herman van rompuy performing his responsibilities as president of the european council on behalf of all of us in the host country with the person who was hosting the event. whether we would prefer the african union to have held its summit somewhere else is another question; whether, indeed, we would have made some remarks to them on many occasions that perhaps they should. but in the end, we go to meet the african union largely where the african union suggests. we may not like that, and it is a genuine debate. i think we have to engage in that at some point, because my general principle is that engagement is better than isolation. isolation is effective in some circumstances, but engagement is better. having said that, as i have also made clear, we may have brought gaddafi out of the cold. it is now time to send him back into the cold, fully and properly. this is also very important: to have an assessment of what we engage and how we engage and be prepared to review that and stand up and say: we have done this for a set of reasons we think are right, whichever country it is; that we believe engagement in these circumstances is better, but there are circumstances when that is not appropriate and circumstances where, even if that is what we did, it is not appropriate now. but let us be honest, let us not throw down challenges with photographs or other things, where people did this and people did that. people mainly do their very best in circumstances that are very difficult, and i think we should take pride in the president of the council trying to be the representative of the member states. i want to just also say something about labels. we hear a lot about a marshall plan: somebody even called it an ashton plan. no, let us have a libyan plan or an egyptian plan or a tunisian plan, owned by the people of those countries in which we engage and offer our support. i do not want to make a plan that we arrive at and about which we say: guess what, we have come to bring you our plan for your country. no, let us not do that. let us actually be the people who offer the support to ensure that their plan is able to be everything that we would want it to be to support democracy. there are people in this house who have years of experience, who have come through revolution and change and who have a huge amount to offer. i firmly hope – and i have said this in these countries – that they will call upon (if they feel it would be valuable) those people who have lived it and who not only know what worked but also can tell them what did not work. perhaps the things to avoid can be just as important as the things to do. i agree that we need to review what the eu does, what tools we have available to us, whether we have enough, whether we need to think again about what we are able to do. because you are right, i operate within a mandate that i am given, and i can only operate in that mandate. that mandate allows me to do some things, but it mainly requires me to gather together the institutions and the 27 countries in a concerted and joint effort. one final thing about publicity and listening. i have done more press, i think, than anybody else in the world on all of this. i have been wall to wall on the airwaves. we were the first out on the resignation of mubarak, and i have done a huge amount of press. but i have also done far more without the press in the room. again, that is what i think is important, because more than anything, we need to listen. we are all visiting these countries, and they have so many visitors from across the world, and that is great – though i think sometimes we need to give them space and time to be able to work together to plan and then have an even more informed conversation with us. but we also need to listen, and if there is anything i urge upon all of us it is to take the time to really listen – i will say this to member states as well – to what people on the ground are saying, to go to tahrir square as i did, to talk to the young people in egypt, to talk to civil society in tunisia and to engage with the people of libya wherever we can: to discuss what they want for their future and do everything we possibly can to back them.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i did not reply to it; i heard it, and i am very well aware of it. there are two reasons that i did not reply. one is that i have assumed the president of the european parliament, who will be speaking at the european council, will convey – as he always does – what parliament has said and what it has agreed in its resolutions. i think that is an appropriate way forward for this parliament to be properly represented. the second is because it will be for the member states to determine. so it was not a failure to recognise; i met, indeed, with a gentleman last night. simply, i was trying to honour parliament by recognising the role of the president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i do not understand, in the light of what mr mcmillan-scott has said, whether the council's proposal to recognise the libyan revolution will be among the proposals that the commission and you will make to the council. i understand that you are happy that parliament is talking about it, but will the commission, commissioner ashton, propose it to the council on 11 november as one of its proposals, as one of its own proposals? that is our question.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not rhetorical to say that we are at a historic moment in the process of european integration. the economic crisis has made it clear that the single currency needs a real european economic government and for the first time important and innovative steps are being taken in this direction. at the same time, there is a dangerous tendency to give this new governance an intergovernmental character, with the risk not only of jeopardising the institutional set-up of the european union, but also of rendering the new mechanisms ineffective. in this sense, the issue of the permanent stability mechanism is emblematic and central. on the one hand, the establishment of a permanent stability mechanism is a decisive and important step forward. parliament supports this choice, although it is important to emphasize this, this must not preclude the possibility of using extraordinary solidarity mechanisms, those based on article 122 which are currently in operation. on the other hand, while the establishment of a permanent mechanism is a good thing, the european council has chosen to build a purely intergovernmental mechanism, depriving the european institutions of any role, including in the procedure leading to its establishment. this, among other things, could raise questions in the course of the ratification process about the appropriateness of a simplified procedure, since it is hardly disputed that a reduction in the powers of the european union would require an ordinary revision procedure and since the treaty says two very clear things, that the monetary policy of the member states whose currency is the euro is an exclusive competence of the union and that the member states must coordinate their economic policies within the framework of the union, since the treaty says this, a mechanism operating entirely outside the institutional set-up of the european union would hardly be compatible with these principles and would therefore constitute a reduction in the powers of the european union which would not be compatible with a simplified revision procedure, and this problem could be raised by some national parliament in the course of the ratification procedure, which we know will not be a simple and risky path. for this reason too, the european parliament would have preferred a different procedure, more appropriate institutionally and less politically risky, article 352, alone or in combination with article 136; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the substance is that the permanent stability fund will be set up by the member states because they have decided so, but that it may be the foundation stone of a new building outside the institutions of the european union, or it may be an intergovernmental carriage placed, however, inside a convoy of the european union travelling on the tracks of european law. the european parliament wants to make its contribution to ensuring that this is the second road we are taking. in our report we therefore asked for two conditions to be met: either a rewording of the amendment proposal, which would somehow place the establishment of the mechanism's distribution within a union procedure, or substantial involvement of the community institutions in the actual implementation of the mechanism and also, above all, in the definition of the conditionalities. what principles and rules for giving aid? by whom and how will they be established? this requires a regulation under the ordinary legislative procedure and we look forward to discussing these points with the european council and the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the peculiarity of the council's proposal is that, once adopted, it gives the go-ahead for the creation of a permanent stability mechanism through an instrument of international law and therefore without a direct link with the institutional system of the union. this has been a matter of great concern to the committee i chair, whose task it is to ensure the consistency of the union's institutional framework. the proposal for a simplified amendment has therefore given rise to a lively debate, in which arguments based on the sound principles of the european integration process have been compared with those based on pragmatism and political realism. in summary, the committee on constitutional affairs considers that the european parliament, in order to decide on the proposal to amend the treaty, must assess the economic governance context in which the proposal is placed. we need to know better how the future mechanism will interact with existing institutional structures. it would be wrong to create double structures which in the long run would risk a fracture of the union. the proposals and suggestions in the brok and gualtieri report are intended to build appropriate bridges between the union's institutional system and the new mechanism. i would also stress that these points must be considered by the council as essential to harmonious cooperation between the european institutions. i therefore strongly urge the european council to take note of the need and the consideration it must give us before our vote on 24 march. we are waiting for a useful signal and i warmly thank the rapporteurs brok and gualtieri for the great work they have done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of a treaty is always a complex and delicate matter, and the first amendment is even more so because it can set a precedent to which subsequent speeches will refer. for this reason too, i believe that the work of elmar brok and roberto gualtieri was very careful, balanced and entirely shareable. there are three points i would like to stress in the text they have presented to us. the first point is that the permanent mechanism cannot and must not be outside the institutional framework of europe. for this reason, the commission's presence on the board will be the key to giving this community dimension to the relationship between the current institutional framework and the mechanism that will be modified. the second issue is the full continuity with the existing situation of temporary measures, and woe to us if this were to fail. finally, and decisive for the future development of economic governance, the relationship with economic institutions. we must avoid creating dual models that would bring harm instead of benefit.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as has been said several times, sometimes for the commission to be heard it must speak up. i will try to do this now. firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and the members for a very important debate. i think that we can definitely agree with many points which have been made in this discussion, especially that we need strong action at european level and that a future mechanism should be as close as possible to the community spirit and the method. to react to the comments on our assistance to greece and ireland: i think our experience clearly demonstrates that we should be constantly searching for a delicate balance between preserving the sustainability of the debt and avoiding moral hazards. the fact that we are learning from the experience has, i think, clearly been demonstrated by the statements of my colleague, commissioner olli rehn, in the last few days. at the same time, i think we have to remind ourselves that the circumstances we are living in are truly exceptional. the crisis is still here, recovery is fragile and markets are in turmoil, as we can see in the constant movements of the spreads. more importantly, european countries are suffering unacceptable pressure and they see their future as mortgaged by high interest rates on their debts. we therefore need to act, and we need to act fast. we clearly need to demonstrate our resolve. setting up the permanent mechanism must therefore be done in the shortest possible time and as quickly as possible. what is very important – and this was the one condition on which the commission was very insistent – is that it must be done within the framework of the treaties. i agree with mr gauzès that swift action is needed, because we need legal certainty. i also agree with mr guerrero salom, who said that we should not treat this as a precedent. i can assure him that the procedure which is used, and the type of cooperation which is proposed, is definitely not seen as a precedent by the commission. i have to inform you that the commission is closely associated with the preparatory work and that we consider it essential that we are also involved in setting up and operating this mechanism. as stated in annex 2 of the european council conclusions, the role of the commission is expected to be central in the preparation of analyses and programmes for the future countries in it. but we believe that the commission’s central role should be underlined even more strongly. regarding the criticism of the method which was chosen, i have to say that we have seen good examples which such a method can result in, for example schengen or the third pillar. to conclude, just one sentence. when the lisbon treaty was being drafted, this type of cooperation, this area of cooperation, was considered to be too ambitious for the member states. now, however, real life, the real experience we have with interdependence and with economic cooperation, is clearly demonstrating to us that what we need is a european solution to this very important european problem. i believe we will achieve it.
thank you, vice president, i give the floor to mr. gualtieri with a strong recommendation to be tightened in a minute.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this was an important debate which seems to me to have clearly demonstrated the existence of a broad consensus among the political groups on the analysis and the line set out in the report. parliament is really speaking with one voice, with a few exceptions, and that is important. we are saying yes to the permanent stability mechanism, we are not hiding our doubts and concerns, which we have heard from the commission, and we are also sharing them, although we would have liked to have read them in the commission's opinion on the procedure chosen. we are prepared to show realism and a sense of responsibility in acknowledging that the political conditions do not exist for defining a community mechanism today, and yet we have shown, we are showing determination in our willingness to help place the mechanism within the framework of the union's law and procedures, in compliance with the treaties. the proposals we have made are clear, but the crucial point seems to me to be different now. is the european council prepared to open a real debate with parliament on its proposals and is the commission prepared to play an active role in this debate? i would point out that parliament has taken what i would call a ritual decision to postpone the vote until the 24th. i think this is an important signal, we are a responsible parliament, but i think it is necessary that the european council should also show the same sense of responsibility in considering the european parliament's proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, turkey is a strategic partner for the european union and its position is central to the economic and political interests of the union itself and it attributes to it an important role in promoting european action in the black sea area, as well as in promoting peaceful relations in the middle east. the 2010 report on the state of play of turkey's accession negotiations with the european union, however, highlights the slow pace of the process and the resistance of turkish political forces to some of the key provisions of the association agreement. i believe, mr president, that the turkish authorities have not made any significant progress on justice, fundamental rights, freedom of information, freedom of religion, immigration, despite the pressure from the citizens. economic interests in the region cannot make us indulgent on fundamental rights and freedoms. the resolution also calls on the commission and the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu and the member states are able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. my concern is that this partnership hypothesis may jeopardise the acceleration of the accession process, which must remain our main objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the framework in which we should frame the debate on this resolution is that set out in directive 2008/56, the so-called framework directive on the marine environment strategy. as the honourable member who spoke earlier said, the framework is that of the protection of the marine environment, because the directive lays down common principles on the basis of which the member states must draw up their own strategies, also in collaboration with third countries, for the achievement of good ecological status in the marine waters for which they are responsible. this is the framework within which the strategy for the atlantic region should have been set, also on the basis of the indications given by the council of the european union on 14 june, as the commissioner also mentioned in his speech in the house. the resolution put to the vote by parliament goes beyond this perimeter, proposing, far beyond what emerges from the consultations carried out by the commission itself, a strategy for a macro-region that addresses territorial as well as maritime issues. this guideline anticipates a different decision. i hope that the commission's communication, in line with what has been anticipated in this house, will bring the initiative within the scope of the directive on the integrated maritime strategy, which i support as such. that is why i am voting against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on turkey because the constitutional reform which took place on 12 september was unanimously recognised as an important step towards europe by turkey. of course, there are still many steps to be taken and i am concerned about the many arrests of journalists. i would like to stress that turkey is the seventh largest trading partner of the european union, that the european union is turkey's main trading partner and that trade, properly interpreted for centuries, has fostered people's peaceful understanding and understanding. i therefore welcome the considerable progress made in boosting links between the european union and turkey, in particular those via the motorways of the sea crossing the northern adriatic and the northern tyrrhenian sea, on which there is now a flow of over 250 000 tirs per year in both directions, in connection with a major tir lorry-wagon rail link from the port to an internal european destination. this has eliminated a considerable amount of the remaining truck traffic on the road and i hope that this will continue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot to be done in the fight against discrimination in europe. i agree with our rapporteur that, although discrimination on ethnic grounds may be considered to have been eliminated, the social and economic exclusion of the majority of the roma population still exists and remains one of the major challenges we will have to face in the coming years. this is due to a whole range of specific factors such as geographical disadvantages, low levels of education or the collapse of planned economies which attract a multitude of low-skilled labour. a strategy to promote their socioeconomic inclusion will not undermine anti-discrimination laws but complement them. a significant proportion of europe's roma face such precarious and unfavourable conditions that measures to promote their social inclusion must be seen as addressing one of the biggest gaps in respect for constitutional and human rights in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by approving today's own-initiative report, parliament has taken a concrete step towards the genuine inclusion of roma in the communities that host them. the marginalisation of roma communities must be overcome through the full recognition of fundamental rights such as health care, education and protection for vulnerable groups. we also welcome better coordination with local and regional authorities, as well as the improvement in the text in the part where there are concrete checks on the consistency and effectiveness of funding in relation to the expected result and in the part where premium criteria are introduced for the benefit of the member states, which ensure the appropriate use of the resources allocated. however, more could probably be done in terms of the recognition of mutual rights and duties, because it is necessary to consider the concurrent responsibility of the roma communities to make their inclusion effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the need for a european strategy for the integration of the roma and we certainly must not underestimate the possible discrimination against them, but there can be no rights without duties, no integration without legality. unauthorized shantytowns in appalling sanitary conditions, high school dropout rates, illegal activities such as theft, hospitality, induction to female and child prostitution, harassing solicitation, refusal of any integration and work accompaniment path proposed by the local authorities: this is the reality of many roma communities in my country and in other european countries. and it is a bit hypocritical to say that the responsibility is always and only with the institutions and never with those who have chosen to place this conduct on the shoulders of the community. finally, i regret that this text has not sought to refer to the correct application of directive 2004/38/ec, which provides for strict requirements for the stay of community citizens in another member state and for removal on grounds of public security. for these reasons i voted against in my group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs járóka's report is particularly important at the moment and will, together with the communication which the commission is about to adopt, form the basis for the subsequent discussions at the meeting of the european roma platform in budapest, scheduled for 7 and 8 april. i share the call for the introduction of binding minimum standards at european union level in the fields of education, employment, housing and health care. in particular, i believe that more attention should be paid to primary education, which is crucial for the full integration of the roma minority. the firm invitation addressed to the european commission by france, romania, bulgaria and finland is certainly to be welcomed. however, the commission needs to play a more active role in providing guidance and direction in the development of an effective roma inclusion strategy. it is clear that there is a need to identify the specific duties which the nomadic communities will have to assume.
mr president, my group supports this report because it is a move in the right direction, calling for an eu strategy and a road map for roma inclusion. the report is inspired by a keen perception of the extremely heterogeneous cultural aspects between different roma communities in europe. at the same time, it advocates the introduction of binding and minimum standards at eu level for starting a real policy of integration. the eu strategy addresses all forms of violation of the fundamental rights of the roma people and calls for effective access for the roma to the labour market by making micro-credit available for self-employment and entrepreneurship. my group particularly appreciates the stress on the education of roma children, namely the abolition of classroom segregation through the employment of roma mediators and an increase in the number of roma teachers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this important own-initiative report strongly affirms the need to develop a european strategy for the social inclusion of the roma. the economic and social discrimination against roma communities in europe, which has increased as a result of the current economic crisis, must be combated. the european union must develop a new legal framework and avoid continuing to tackle this problem through legislation of a non-binding nature, because it is insufficient and not suitable to achieve the objective. it is equally important to keep the roma task force as a permanent body and to start thinking about a mechanism similar to that used for the internal market assessment also for this issue. finally, europe must make every effort to ensure that its citizens, especially those who are most vulnerable, are protected in all the human rights linked to human dignity. the overall inclusion of roma is essentially a matter of fundamental rights, even if we must ask the roma community to want to integrate and not to close themselves in their own reality where they do not respect european and national standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today we have given a further impetus to the, shall we say, definitive solution of this problem, but we have not voted for the best possible solution. i would remind you that the more than 300 amendments to the report have been converted into 38 compromise amendments, all of which have been adopted, which aim to define better the priority areas of the strategy, that is, the objectives of this strategy. the commission, with the standing task force, will have to ensure the collection and dissemination of statistical data and good practice, and the member states should appoint a government official, hopefully at a high level, to act as a point of contact for the implementation of the strategy. but we could have been even more incisive and less hypocritical if we had focused in the report on the obligations and duties which the roma community should in any case respect in the host countries. i hope that solutions will soon be found to enable this community to live together better in all the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no more children who are not in school, no more children who are forced to beg or are exploited. these are some of the aims of the járóka report, which is an important political response. beyond the declarations of principle, we await the european commission's proposal, due in april, for clearer and more shared responsibility and coordination between member states and european institutions on roma policies. the aim must be to make the best use of available resources, starting with community funds, and to avoid leaving the burden of all problems and continuing emergencies to local authorities. i hope that a debate on directive 38 will be opened. the directive provides for specific conditions employment, sufficient economic resources, health insurance for the maintenance of the right of residence but, at the same time, it presents gaps in relation to the eventuality that these requirements are not met. it's a shortcoming that needs to be addressed as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report and i would like to congratulate mrs járóka on her work, which has been able to summarise the various positions by clearly defining the objectives and priorities of the strategy, such as the provision of specific measures against nomadism and guarantees relating to basic health care, as well as equal access to primary, secondary and higher education and the right to housing. the strategy is aimed at inclusion, not mere integration, and it is clear that the role of the commission and local authorities will be crucial, especially with regard to the control and management of community funds. the only limitation of this report is the lack of instruments to verify the actual willingness of some roma communities to integrate and the consequences that should result from an unavailability in terms of staying on the territory of a member country, such as continuing treatment and assistance and welfare programmes that certainly cannot be extended indefinitely without results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent and deep economic crisis which has hit european industry has also highlighted its importance for the economy of the european union. it has often focused on the idea that markets should self-regulate and this has so far been achieved mainly through individual measures with virtually no coordination between member states. the europe 2020 strategy, for the first time, recognises the need for a new approach by introducing a flagship initiative. it is time for the european union to make full use of the common opportunities for sustainable renewal and further development of the industrial base with quality jobs. european industry should maintain its leadership in key sectors, not be left behind. it is time for the union to choose its own path for the industry of the future. we must ensure that the added value is created within our european market. to this end, a distinctive macroeconomic coordination of economic, fiscal and budgetary policies for growth and employment, for example through the tax harmonisation of corporate taxes, is essential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lange report deals with a very topical problem, the problem of how to respond to the economic and financial crisis which has seriously affected our productive system. i think that the answer contained in this resolution is an extremely positive one, because it manages to bring together all the variables necessary to build a good economic recovery plan. the idea of focusing on innovation and research, taking into account the size of our entrepreneurial fabric, is very important and i think it suggests a valid stimulus to the commission's perhaps a little more conservative position. i would like to express my appreciation for the work of the rapporteur, who has succeeded in summarizing the more than 500 amendments and has put down a resolution which, taken as a whole, makes a major contribution to the work ahead. the picture that emerges is that of an industrial policy centred on european policy, cross-sectoral and above all participatory through the use of bottom-up and top-up monitoring models. there is only one remaining point of contention, and that is the european patent. i am totally opposed to this, but that did not prevent me from voting in favour of a very positive report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report highlights many positive aspects and reflects the views and demands expressed by the various national industrial associations. i cannot therefore fail to agree with the general outline of mr lange's report. however, some critical issues have emerged which have not been addressed and resolved, such as the demand for new legislative measures on resource efficiency and, above all, the issue of enhanced cooperation on patents. it is important now to address the question of the european rules of origin mark, which i believe is an indispensable instrument for strengthening and improving european industry and its competitiveness. i voted in favour of the lange report because i hope that the adoption of this report will encourage all the institutions to work towards the ambitious programme outlined and to translate it into concrete political action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be inconceivable that a sector which represents 57 million people in the union, three quarters of european exports of industrial goods and about a third of the gross value added of the european union, should not be supported by adequate sectoral policies aimed at growth and development. there can be no competitive trade policy without innovative and quality industrial activity. i agree with the suggestions made by the committee on international trade, particularly those which stress the importance of an effective trade defence system, using the instruments provided for, where appropriate. defending the union's interest in the future negotiations, in order to protect industry and employment, is an essential necessity to help overcome the crisis and to ensure that, with the manufacturing sector, the real economy is given priority over the financial one, avoiding those speculative bubbles which have led to so much disaster.
in writing. - the outcome of this vote sets a fundamental precedent along the road which i hope will one day lead to the concentration of all the european parliament's activities in one place. i do not think that the waste of public resources and the air pollution caused by the double seating of parliament, which every month forces thousands of people to make long and arduous journeys between brussels and strasbourg, can be tolerated any longer. the inclusion of the two october plenary sessions in the official calendar for 2012 sends a very strong signal and i am optimistic that the path taken will be the fairest and closest to the citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the changes to the official calendar of the european parliament for 2012 and 2013 because i believe it is right to try to limit the waste of economic resources and not in the performance of our parliamentary mandate. the decision to combine the two october plenary sessions in the same week avoids a double trip to strasbourg, with the resulting savings in resources. finally, i believe that this decision is in line with what is already happening today, with the concentration of two plenary sessions in september.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed changes to the calendar of the european parliament's plenary sessions in strasbourg for 2012 and 2013 because i believe that, in full respect of the treaties, it is still possible to synthesise two sessions of parliament in a single week, avoiding having to go to strasbourg twice in the same month. this will save the cost of the european institutions and avoid waste of money and time. this will require greater effort in the organisation of work on my part and that of my colleagues, but it will also show the public a greater commitment to avoid unnecessary waste of public money.
in writing. - the outcome of this vote sets a fundamental precedent along the road which i hope will one day lead to the concentration of all the european parliament's activities in one place. i do not think that the waste of public resources and the air pollution caused by the double seating of parliament, which every month forces thousands of people to make long and arduous journeys between brussels and strasbourg, can be tolerated any longer. the inclusion of the two october plenary sessions in the 2013 official calendar sends a very strong signal and i am optimistic that the path taken is the fairest and closest to the citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr josé manuel fernandes concerns the spending guidelines for the 2012 budget of the european institutions. the report calls for greater spending discipline, particularly in the bureaucratic management of the european organisational machinery, given the difficult economic situation. that is why i support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the 2012 budget, like the 2013 budget, will be consolidation budgets, designed to reflect member states' expenditure containment and to provide a benchmark for the amounts to be set under the next financial framework. the objective for this budget must be excellence, which means pursuing the objectives of economy, efficiency and effectiveness with the minimum of available resources. what parliament must aim at in this consolidation phase is an increase in the budget which is not above the rate of inflation. this threshold represents an exercise of high responsibility. the increased expenditure resulting from the enlargement of croatia and the 18 new members provided for by the lisbon treaty will be supplemented by an amending budget. in order to respect the expenditure-containment approach, i would like all the institutions to forward in advance the information needed to draw up a general picture of administrative expenditure, so that the budgetary authority can take decisions on the use of resources in accordance with a multiannual, sustainable approach, aimed at the comparability over time and between the institutions of the data provided.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution by mr fernandes on the guidelines for the 2012 budgetary procedure provides an overview of the european parliament's budgetary management with a view to optimising the future management of the resources available to the european institutions, which is why i voted in favour. parliament will have to adopt its budget in such a way as to consolidate the future financial framework and the additional human resources to meet the requirements of the lisbon treaty, improve and complete the buildings available, the computer and interpreting services. the main objective remains to find a good method of managing resources in order to be able to contain expenditure while still improving services.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the 2012 budgetary procedure because i considered that the current economic crisis, which is having repercussions at the present stage, especially in terms of employment, requires a joint effort to contain it not only by the member states but also by the european institutions. i therefore agree that in the present context the general principle of european financing should be based on budgetary austerity. however, i would like to stress that, even in the face of the economic situation, the budget of the union, and in particular the budget of parliament, as the only community institution directly elected by the citizens, should be particularly attentive to promoting and bringing citizens closer to the institutions of the union, especially in times of uncertainty about the future such as these. in particular, i think it would be particularly useful to be able to think about a better distribution of parliament's information and liaison offices in the member states and a more strategic location of these offices, also in the light of the recent upheavals in neighbouring countries.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution on the european union strategy in the atlantic region follows the european council's call on the commission to develop an integrated strategy addressing maritime and territorial issues in the atlantic. i voted in favour of the resolution to urge the european commission to prepare and report on the negotiations for the strategy by june. the aim is to implement better coordination in the region on issues such as the integrated maritime policy, trans-european transport networks, fisheries, climate and environment projects, research and development, increase the movement of people, goods and services in the regions, in order to achieve the goal of cohesion policy, ensuring that all this coincides with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and with the policies of the european union for the period after 2013.
in writing. − my statement aims to justify my abstention on the resolution on turkey. i abstained because i did not agree with its lack of positive inspiration and its lack of a clear appreciation of some key features of the turkish government’s recent action. in this resolution there is too much of a paternalistic attitude towards a great country that does not deserve this treatment. there are too many demands on turkey, with too many details and too many unrealistic standards to be met. if these standards were applied to the eu member states, several of them would not qualify for eu accession. i hope this attitude towards turkey will change over time, and i hope this parliament will show a stronger commitment to the goal of having turkey in the eu soon.
in writing. - for the fifth year in a row, turkey has failed to meet europe's demands. there are growing phenomena of fundamentalism which the government does not combat, given its nationalist-islamist policy. the situation of christian religious minorities and of women has been deteriorating markedly for years. turkey does not want to conform to the standards of western democracies, and has embarked on a path of re-islamization that will take it further and further away from accession. a country which is seeking to take a leading role in the arab-muslim world through an aggressive foreign policy towards the west and israel is a country which reveals for itself the reasons which my movement has long opposed to those who would like turkey to be a member country. while highlighting many of the problems that have emerged in recent years, the report also welcomes the 'progress' made by the turkish government in some areas. the report leaves the door to europe wide open to ankara, and that is why i am voting against it. turkey is not europe, it will never be europe, neither culturally nor politically, and the steps backwards turkey has taken should convince even the most enthusiastic to give up the idea that this country should join the european project.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by my dutch colleague from the epp, mrs ruijten. the text is very balanced, and it emphasises some of the critical issues that have not yet been overcome in turkey's path towards the eu. it should also be recalled that, in addition to the unresolved question of the armenian genocide, the turkish authorities bear responsibility for the occupation of part of the island of cyprus and for the dispute with the republic of cyprus, which has been a member state of the union since 2004. another fundamental point is that of interreligious dialogue with the various communities, including the christian community, in particular the possibility for these communities to obtain legal personality to open and manage places of worship. i think it is time to get rid of the hypocrisy and stop putting obstacles in the way of the turks, knowing from the start that these are obstacles which are difficult to overcome. turkey is not europe, culturally and geographically; but it has very rich trade relations with europe. for these reasons, i believe it is more useful and appropriate to create a privileged trade partnership, without insisting on the slow and tortuous road to accession.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder how it is possible that this report does not include some of the essential issues concerning turkey, first and foremost the tragic situation in cyprus. in the northern part of the island, under turkish control, systematic violations of basic rights are on the agenda, and turkey is trying to encourage further colonial settlement work, which will certainly not go in the direction of promoting a desirable peace process. another fundamental point that leaves me with no basis is that the stubborn turkish failure to recognise the genocide perpetrated against the armenian people in the last century has not been adequately emphasised. for these and other reasons i have expressed my negative opinion on the report, and i remain strongly and firmly opposed to any future accession of turkey to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2010 progress report on turkey. the commission's annual report shows that the modernisation of turkey towards a democratic and pluralistic system is a slow and laborious process, but one that the turkish government, citizens and civil society are working towards. the internal political clash for reforms does not facilitate growth towards european standards but shows how there is still a commitment to change and modernisation. the recent events in the mediterranean show how important it is to evaluate reforms and the situation step by step and to avoid simplistic positions.
in writing. - there are still many open questions about turkey's progress in the eu accession negotiations. the first thing to be done is to settle the current cyprus question between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities, which will also include the withdrawal of turkish troops, negotiations which are going through a particularly delicate phase. in addition, there are serious doubts about the cultural background of the country itself, which is closely linked to islamic traditions, which are very far removed from the christian-catholic roots of europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report, while strongly criticising the positions of turkey, maintains a clear intention to have it join the eu. we cannot agree for many reasons which show that that country has nothing in common with the rest of europe: the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. even today, a religion other than islam cannot open and use places of worship, cannot proselytize or train its own clergy, cannot have legal personality. the turkish government does not want to join important protocols and treaties with the european union and does not cooperate sufficiently with regard to the control of illegal immigration. for these reasons, the vote on the report is against.
in writing. - the report sets out all the reasons why europe should not want montenegro to join the eu. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of south africa. i cannot agree with the basic idea expressed by the european council on the accession of the balkan countries to the eu either: it is a political and strategic absurdity to consider europe as the inevitable destiny of the countries of the former yugoslavia. it seems that recent experience is not enough for the leaders of our institutions: the desire to press at all costs on the accelerator of enlargement by including economically weak and politically unstable countries has certainly not helped the consolidation of the community edifice, but has rather weakened its structure, slowed down decision-making processes and complicated the elaboration of common policies in crucial areas of the life of our continent. i therefore vote against this report, whose basic idea, while underlining the many problems underlying the accession process of montenegro, remains that of the desirability of montenegro's accession to the eu.
in writing. - the process of enlargement of the eu is continuing on purely geographical grounds and, as i have already had the opportunity to say in this chamber, the status of candidate country for accession is being granted by the european council in a hurry, before the countries in question have reached standards of quality of democracy that are at least close to a threshold of adequacy. corruption, smuggling, organised crime and violations of press freedoms are just some of the elements for which i consider montenegro still far from the european dimension. and i think that is reason enough not to support this resolution, which follows the guidelines for the future of the balkans with a european perspective, regardless of the real problems in the area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution which favours the integration of montenegro into the european system, because we have all seen the considerable progress that this country has made towards adopting the right practices and instruments. these are necessary measures not only for eu membership but also to provide a judicial, civil and social framework for a country which must grow in accordance with the rules and with a view to growth shared at the various levels of administration. montenegro has already started important reforms which are therefore going in the right direction, which is also to create an administrative system which will make effective the future use of the structural funds which will bring so much benefit to this country. in the run-up to the start of the long-awaited negotiations, my wish, shared by many colleagues, is to create a suitable environment for the citizens of montenegro: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. − montenegro became an official candidate country for eu membership in december 2010, but no date has yet been set for the actual opening of negotiations. i support the resolution's implementation when it complements the government in podgorica in view of the priority given to reforms linked to the integration process and, despite the problems to be solved, hopes for the official opening of negotiations within the year. in the context of the process of balkan rapprochement with the eu, montenegro is the country with the best social political situation. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution, because i believe that the accession of montenegro and the other balkan countries to the eu is of fundamental strategic interest for europe both for the stability of the region itself and for its development and the resources it offers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since montenegro officially became a candidate country for accession to the european union on 17 december 2010, the government of pdogorica has immediately given priority to reforms in its country that can accelerate the process of european integration. there are still problems to be solved, such as electoral reform, public administration and the legal system, but the report makes it clear that montenegro is making progress. italy fully supports the european aspirations of this country, as it considers that the accession of montenegro and the western balkans is in the eu's fundamental interest, in order to promote stability, regional cooperation and development in a geographical area crucial for our continent.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because i believe that the process of european integration in montenegro can meet a fundamental strategic interest of the european union, namely to promote and try to guarantee stability and development in a geographical area which is crucial for our continent. such accession may also make it possible to strengthen the fight against organised crime originating in the balkan area. it should also be noted that montenegro, in the context of the process of bringing the balkan countries closer to the union, has already been expressing a strong internal consensus on the european perspective for some time and demonstrating a mature and conciliatory attitude towards the neighbouring states.
in writing. - the report on roma inclusion does not take account of the difficulties faced by roma in social integration, especially when one considers that it is often the roma community itself that does not want to integrate into the social fabric of our countries. it is nothing but a cultural factor that cannot be denied or ignored: the roma have their own traditions and customs and ways of life which make it very difficult for them to integrate into social environments characterised by practices, ways of life and habits which are very different from their own. the fact remains that any policy for roma integration must deal with this obstacle: the actual willingness or availability of roma to integrate. beyond sociological considerations, i must point out that, given these and other difficulties, the policies suggested in the report towards roma communities will involve a huge outlay of funding from the eu and the member states, without ultimately achieving the desired result. without further ado, that is what has happened so far, and there is no reason to believe that the situation will change from now on. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the management of the problems of europe's largest ethnic minority requires pragmatism rather than false optimism. we are talking about the granting of a whole series of rights to the roma minority, rights which many citizens can only have thanks to their daily sacrifices. i do not think that a european strategy is a viable option, since there are profound differences between member states. some countries are facing objective difficulties, while others are not affected at all. that is why i believe that the principle of subsidiarity is more effective. for these reasons, i do not intend to support the text as it has been presented.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote in support of the resolution on the eu strategy for roma inclusion can be a useful stimulus for the countries of the union to support non-discrimination and an incentive to put in place instruments to protect roma. this applies in particular to the most vulnerable groups, as stated in the eu charter of fundamental rights. i believe that the identification of effective economic instruments is the next objective to be achieved in implementing a serious and concrete policy of inclusion of the roma community. the resolution in question, which deals with a problem of particular importance, also for my country, is therefore aimed at the practical integration of the roma, which will allow them to participate effectively in the economic, social and cultural life of the countries in which they are located, provided, i add, that the principles and legal rules of the host state are fully respected. finally, i support the call on the commission to take a leading role in the implementation of a unified strategic coordination, in partnership with the member states, through the establishment of a task force as a permanent body responsible for monitoring and coordinating the matter.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to vote against this report because i see no need for the european union to commit substantial resources to promoting the inclusion of roma. in a situation of crisis and general difficulties, the aim is to accelerate the process of securing specific funding and favourable conditions in a number of areas for the roma population. this ethnic group has historically remained isolated in europe, and often not by the will of others, but by their own nature; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. rather than a specific strategy for the inclusion of roma at european level, i would like to see a real and effective common strategy for immigration, which is becoming increasingly indispensable and no longer deferrable, instead.
in writing. the european union has been working for years on problems of social integration and the protection of minorities. the report by mrs járóka on the strategy for the social inclusion of the roma proposes an action plan for their socioeconomic integration with a view to a european project defining national strategies to deal with the problem, also on the basis of the costs that each member state will have to bear. i voted in favour of the report for this very reason: the european union has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 april the european commission will present its communication on the inclusion of roma people. this issue is also identified as a priority by the hungarian government, which is currently the president of the european semester. parliament's resolution stresses the need for greater integration of the roma population into modern society. i personally believe that it is these populations who must adapt to our society and not force us to adopt favourable policies which often produce the opposite of what we expect. ignorance, lack of culture and illiteracy often mean lack of future. without education, therefore, it is impossible to play an active role in society. the difficulties roma face in finding a job are often the consequence of their low level of education, and this confirms that the education sector is the foundation for building their own future.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is absolutely unacceptable in that it repeatedly stresses that the inclusion of the roma is an economic necessity and that it would bring financial benefits to the member states, it proposes a task force for the roma as a permanent organ of the commission and it denounces systematic discrimination and an intolerable level of exclusion and violation of human rights. the report also stresses the need for a common european strategy to combat all forms of violation of roma rights, including fingerprinting and expulsion. it provides for penalties to be imposed on national governments which do not comply with mandatory community standards in favour of the roma population, for the recruitment of roma in public administration, for the recruitment of roma teachers in schools in order to protect their culture through the use of their language. and as a last ditch attempt at free speech, he wants to condemn the rejection and discrimination of roma at political rallies. it is clear that a report which is absolutely offensive and which infringes the right of peoples to be masters of their own homes cannot but be voted against.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr bernd lange on industrial policy for the era of globalisation deals with issues of great importance such as access to credit for businesses, especially smes. i particularly appreciate the idea of linking the industrial world to the university world in order to give a boost to european universities, thus recalling the objectives of the eu 2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe 2020 strategy has recognised the need to define a new industrial policy in order to preserve a strong and sustainable european industrial base. a strong and prosperous industry is a key factor for the growth of the european union and it is therefore essential to create a framework as favourable as possible for its development in the current context of globalisation and intense international competition. the report certainly deserves credit for providing a detailed overview of industrial policy in the light of the economic crisis which has hit the sector hard and for providing various ideas for the practical revival of european industry. i think it is important that the policy objectives set out in the flagship initiative presented by commissioner tajani on 28 october should be translated into concrete actions, such as the strengthening and internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises, better access to credit and the establishment of a new model of industrial innovation. in addition, europe must take the risk of increasing productivity with new ideas, investing more in research, which must be the new engine for the revival of european excellence.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today's vote is an important step forward in the recovery from the economic and financial crisis which has hit europe and its industries. the resolution concerns a key sector which needs to be fully supported in order to enable the european union to implement an industrial policy which accompanies the achievement of high levels of production and the effort towards sustainable and competitive renewal. i think it is useful to refer to the eu2020 strategy, which should serve as a guiding light for the full implementation of the priorities of european action, through substantial investment in innovation and research, which are necessary for europe's growth and development. i think that the rapporteur has done a good job overall, having succeeded in synthesising the ideas and suggestions from over 500 amendments into a report which i share and support, with the exception of the european patent. i believe that the decision to establish closer cooperation in a strategically important area such as intellectual property is not a correct decision and will have positive consequences for european industry.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr lange's report because, alongside the europe 2020 strategy, the eu must work towards energy development and better use of resources in order to ensure innovation. the industrial policy for the globalisation era document lists these objectives: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states on the use of the euro. smes must be given greater facilities and access to finance. it is important to emphasize the means by which a dynamic and forward-looking industrial policy can be defined, namely the structural funds, which, if used correctly, will be the basis of european growth.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report parliament is highlighting important issues which deserve to be highlighted in the context of the growth of european industry. i am referring to the recognition of the strategic role of small and mediumsized enterprises and the need to facilitate access to credit through simplified financing procedures, as well as the importance of internationalisation as a key factor for competitiveness. it is also crucial to link innovation to the industrial world through constant links between enterprises and universities, also proposing the commercialisation of results and encouraging their use. i therefore support the content and proposals of mr lange's report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted today in the plenary on the report by mr bernd lange on industrial policy in the era of globalisation. european industry accounts for about one third of the eu's gross value added, with almost three quarters of european exports made up of industrial goods, and one third of employment, supporting some 57 million people. if one takes into account its multiplier effect, whereby each job in industry creates about two additional jobs in related services, its impact on employment is even more substantial. furthermore, european industrial policy must be geared both to the sustainable, competitive and eco-efficient renewal of the industrial base at world level and to a sustainable transition from a predominantly productive to a knowledge-based industry. the integration of all union policies to combine all aspects that have an impact on the sector is crucial. the report by mr lange on industrial policy is a follow-up to the position expressed in the communication from the commissioner for industry, mr antonio tajani, with new ideas on the important renewal of the industrial sector after the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is finally recognising the key role of industry by proposing simplification of access to credit and reduction of red tape. in recent years we have seen the adoption of measures which impose heavy burdens on our industry and encourage unfair competition from products imported from third countries. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of korea. the report stresses the importance of research as a means of resisting competition and refers to the vocational training of workers and the information to be given to consumers. but let us not forget that, beyond the fine words, there is a risk of a split in the eu today between the member countries, from which it is clear that there is little will to build an industrial future together. i am referring to what has happened with the european patent which has seen the union leave italy and spain out and use enhanced cooperation between the other member states. the vote on this report is in favour because the principles it contains are shared.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of mr lange's own-initiative report because it expresses the contribution of the european parliament to the debate on a subject of major importance for the business world: the european union is the world's largest industrial power. the report has positive elements such as the widespread call (but only on a voluntary basis, without rigid impositions) for environmental standards by european companies. the central role of industry (and not just industrial policy) in the growth of the european union is also rightly emphasised. now, taking the text voted on today as a starting point, i believe it is important that all the institutions and all the parties concerned should work towards achieving and translating into concrete action the objectives outlined in it: in particular the adoption of measures aimed at protecting intellectual property; the establishment of an industrial innovation model aiming at excellence; the modernisation of industries, especially in relation to environmental protection and the prudent use of energy resources; the promotion of an environment conducive to the internationalisation of smes.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr belder on his excellent work. as the world watches the arab world revolt, iran continues to repress dissidents. the arrest of two opposition leaders, mousavi and karroubi, is the most obvious proof of this. the western world moved for gaddafi, while holding out on iran, perhaps because gaddafi has already fallen and ahmadinejad has not yet. iran is experiencing the largest uprising since the 2009 post-election riots. what are we waiting for then to adopt the freezing of all assets of ahmadinejad, of companies controlled by the revolutionary guards and of all the regime officials involved in repression? what are we waiting for to impose travel restrictions on these regime figures?
mr president, the initial text of this report was criticised for its aggressive language, focusing mostly on iran’s nuclear programme, neglecting the human rights concern and lacking a positive perspective for future cooperation. the numerous amendments presented by my group and by others correct these flaws, and the current text is a balanced one. it distinguishes the two main dossiers: human rights abuses by the current government and the iranian nuclear programme. the two dossiers are not the same thing, and it is irresponsible to make threats to iran of war or international intervention, as i have heard suggested in this parliament today. if you want to strengthen ahmadinejad, just continue to do so, because all iranians, regardless of their political positions, will take a stand against any foreign intervention. the current policy that the european council and also the high representative are taking is the right one, because it is based on a careful appreciation of the situation on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the inviolability of human rights is the very essence of any society based on democratic values. the human rights council in geneva must therefore have clear and precise priorities: the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the council's work is taking place in a particularly sensitive context: what is happening in north africa, in libya in particular, is known to everyone. we have heard today in a long debate the speeches, which we have generally appreciated, by mrs ashton. but there is also a problem in the middle east and at the same time there is a treaty of lisbon which suggests that we should have an even stronger and more decisive recognition in favour of the european union. we need firmness, we need solidarity, which must be the guidelines for concrete, concrete and decisive action, because libyans, tunisians and moroccans want to continue to live where they live today and to do this we must act in a timely manner. one final thought, and one question to mrs ashton: we have recorded his speeches, which i said earlier, and which are generally very good. a strong discrimination is that concerning religions: why, given that the bloodiest violence of recent times has been against christians, has he never mentioned christianophobia in his speech?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the main financial supporter of the palestinian authority, with some 1 billion euros a year, yet europe's political role in the peace process remains marginal. this large financial aid gives us the authority to ask the anc to return to the negotiating table. we must be clear on the question of the recognition of palestine. the problem of peaceful coexistence with israel will not be solved by unilateral recognition of the palestinian state, which has not yet proclaimed itself. the pa must return to an active role, sit at the negotiating table and resolve the outstanding disputes, in particular on secure borders, the status of jerusalem and the refugee question. a partial agreement would strengthen the moderate component of both sides and reduce the influence of extremism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean has been thrust back onto the world political agenda, and europe has discovered that it is very weak. we have not invested in a neighbourhood policy with the middle east and the maghreb, we have not bet on a free trade area, on a common immigration policy, and what is happening in north africa concerns the middle east, where the peace process has come to a standstill. europe, madam high representative, must help israel and the palestinians to restart the negotiations on the basis of proposals now agreed by the council and the european parliament. the changes that are taking place speak to israel as well, and investing in change allows us to combine security with peace. europe must insist on israel easing the pressure on the occupied territories and stopping the settlement policy, which is a necessary condition for the resumption of negotiations. no one is safe when the wind of freedom blows, as we see these days. any further delay in the settlement of the conflict risks undermining the hopes of israelis and palestinians for a just solution and jeopardizing prospects in such a sensitive area of the mediterranean and the middle east.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, peace requires commitments to be made by all at the same time, starting with full recognition of israel - something which is still lacking in the case of some countries - and therefore the need, apart from peace, for all the countries of the region to offer the minimum guarantees necessary for the establishment of relations based on mutual respect. if trade policy has now become a new form of foreign policy, it is no longer only through democracy, but also through trade agreements, which must be proposed and solutions found. it is no longer conceivable that the union should continue to finance projects, as has been the case up to now, for which neither the result for which the funds have been allocated nor the democratic process and the peace process have been increased, albeit slowly. israel cannot be left alone, the palestinian people have a right to a state, but we must also intervene on the economic level with observers who are able to monitor the use of the aid we give. the new situation of these months, which affects a wider geographical area, requires europe to take a stronger and more determined political initiative and to increase its capacity to involve young people, so that they can contribute to building that safer and more democratic society which we have not yet been able to give to the new generations.
mr president, having heard baroness ashton’s statement, i would like to put two questions relating to her evaluation of the impact on the middle east peace process of what is occurring now in north africa. baroness ashton, do you not believe that we have a new opportunity, since the global platform for human rights is now much higher and the threshold of tolerance in the middle east for clear violations of international law and human rights, such as gaza and the settlements, is much lower? my second question is this: do you not believe that the psychology of a besieged fortress in israel, which in the past was a driving force behind its foreign policy, now has much less justification, because the threat posed by what are becoming democratic regimes is very much less and also because democracies do not go to war against each other? do not all these factors contribute powerfully to a potential reduction in tension in the middle east?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 15 years the number of natural and man-made disasters has increased considerably, and we are witnessing phenomena that are becoming more serious and more frequent in almost all the countries of the european union, with serious consequences for the economy, infrastructure and ecosystems. a community approach is needed to develop prevention policies and to identify and adapt the relevant financial instruments. the european union's solidarity fund and national funds are no longer able to cope with the frequent disasters. i would ask the commissioner here when he will be able to provide the data and a map of the areas at risk, as announced in his communication of 23 february 2009. finally, i must say that the council has been blocked for some time on the soil directive, which is useful for improving land management.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mr marinescu for his strong desire to have this debate. we are here almost a year after the accident to discuss this sensitive subject, which has caused great damage to passengers and the companies involved, both in the airline industry and, let us not forget, in other sectors of production. i therefore believe that we must act on a twofold track. on the one hand, to improve coordination between the authorities and the parties involved, finally addressing the reform of eurocontrol, which is certainly not a body directly subordinate to the european institutions, but which has been fundamental in the management and in the ineffective management of this crisis. the inadequacy of purely mathematical models has been demonstrated, leading the authorities of individual countries to block almost all airspace, even when there was no need for it. in the absence of a proven model and more advanced technologies, the excess of precaution has caused enormous damage and inconvenience. in addition, we need to make decisive progress towards the single european sky, by developing all fabs more rapidly to reduce fragmentation in airspace management and ensure more effective airspace management. on the other hand, the rights of travellers must be guaranteed. in this connection i hope that the commission will present as soon as possible the revision of the all-inclusive travel directive to make clearer the framework of guarantees and liabilities in emergency situations and also the possible amendments to the regulation on passenger rights when emergency situations are prolonged. it would also be necessary - as other colleagues have said - to have an emergency plan to ensure alternative mobility, alternative means of transport should a similar situation occur again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this important resolution. it is essential that the european union makes every effort within its powers to bring the emergency to an end, in coordination with the united nations security council, as soon as possible. but expressing a clear condemnation, proposing a no-fly zone, a no-fly zone, imposing an arms embargo and other sanctions, providing humanitarian aid, evacuating european citizens, providing assistance to the affected civilian populations are all ex post measures which seek to contain the emergency. the european union, however, must acquire a stronger political role on the international scene and be able to face the great challenges. after having dealt with the emergency, i think we should stop and think about how the union can work in the future to prevent situations of weak democracies from degenerating into humanitarian disasters.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution. i would like to stress that the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean, recently launched by the commission, is a remarkable first step in the right direction. the eu was largely absent at the beginning of the north african crisis and the transition to democracy, but now it seems to have started to be more active and more effective in this area.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because it clearly distinguishes between the two main dossiers on iran: human rights abuses by the current government and the iranian nuclear programme. the report supports the council’s double-track approach to the nuclear issue: sanctions on the one hand, but an offer of dialogue on the other. it is indispensable to denounce the extremely serious human rights violations occurring in iran today. the perpetrators, who belong mainly to state institutions, are acting with impunity. at the same time, we should avoid irresponsible calls for an international armed intervention against the current tyranny. an armed attack against iran in the name of human rights would be considered by all iranians, regardless of their political positions, as an attack against the country and an additional violation of their fundamental rights. the only winner in such an eventuality would be mr ahmadinejad.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to explain my abstention in the final vote on the report on iran because, while i share all the criticisms against the lack of respect for human rights in iran, especially with regard to the death penalty, the persecution of sexual minorities, the lack of respect for freedom of teaching in schools and universities, i am nevertheless convinced that many of the news, information that this report cites comes directly from american propaganda, and i cannot trust it. finally, as a liberal democrat, while i am of course convinced that iran has every right to pursue the development of nuclear research for peaceful purposes, i would not deny its right to have nuclear weapons in a region where the only power that possesses them and is allowed to possess them is a racist and colonialist state like israel.
in writing. the attacks by the european left on the recently passed hungarian press freedom law must be seen in the context of the theatre in which the instruments made available by our institution are used in an inappropriate and instrumental way on several occasions in order to support political and media campaigns of disinformation at international or domestic level. in this particular case, such attacks are completely out of place, since the debate has already been opened and also closed: the hungarian government has readily accepted the comments made by the european commission and prime minister orban has stated, as early as january 2011, that the media law will be amended in response to these comments. attacking the country holding the presidency of the european union at a time when it should be supported in its task has the effect of weakening the union as a whole and emptying it of authority. the refrain of the lack of press freedom is a film that has already been seen, as are the continuous and anachronistic references to the italian situation, in which paradoxically the major newspapers are controlled by editorial groups close to the left and information flows freely, sometimes too freely, on the web.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that the left-wing political groups in this chamber have exploited a national political issue which has already been resolved, as the recent agreement between the hungarian government and the european commission shows. i believe that national issues of this kind should not be discussed in this institutional setting, since they are the direct responsibility of the individual member states. on the substance of the matter, it is right and proper to protect freedom and pluralism of information as a core value of all the countries of the european union, but freedom of the media must not contradict public morality and above all must not invade anyone's privacy. the media must become more aware of the consequences that an unbalanced use of its power and influence can have on the lives and freedoms of citizens. that is because too often, in the name of the right to report, people's freedom has been curtailed.
in writing. - madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic developments in libya and north africa are continuing to move towards the european frontier: the humanitarian crisis in libya could turn into a wave of migration unprecedented in history. recent estimates suggest that the political upheavals in north africa could bring some 300 000 refugees to the southern coast of the union. i therefore share and support the call by six mediterranean member states of the eu for the creation of a solidarity fund to help mitigate the effects of immigration. i am in favour of the creation of a common european asylum system and a fair sharing of the costs of immigration between member states. in addition, in order to limit mass immigration to europe, i would draw attention to the need to send humanitarian aid to the affected populations and to support the process of democratization and economic growth in the region. finally, i urge the commission to draw up an emergency plan to deal with the worst-case scenario where a massive number of migrants decide to head north to the european coasts. in my view, this emergency plan must be supported by the principle of solidarity between the member states of the european union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my positive vote on this joint resolution on the current situation in libya. the gaddafi regime has committed too many abuses and very serious violations against the insurgent population and i therefore believe that a strong common european position is both necessary and necessary. the measures proposed in the resolution adopted are in the right direction, starting with the desirable closure of airspace over libya, i.e. the creation of a so-called 'no-fly zone', to prevent the regime from attacking the civilian population from the skies. i also believe that it is the duty of the international community, and the european union in particular, to establish relations with the provisional national council of the insurgents in order to help launch a process of democratization in the country. it is time for europe to speak out firmly to put an end to this tragic situation, which can also have serious repercussions throughout the eu, starting with a massive wave of migration flows towards italy in particular and europe in general.
in writing. the european parliament calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the libyan government is able to meet its obligations under the un charter. the resolution calls on the eu to prepare for the possible establishment of a no-fly zone to prevent gaddafi from striking the population and to help the repatriation of those fleeing the violence. i also believe it is strategically important that the eu's high representative for foreign affairs ashton establishes contacts with the representatives of the rebels in the national transitional council in order to speed up the process of official recognition of this body. it is time for gaddafi to step down and put an end to the systematic human rights violations in his country.
in writing. - mr president, the painful aspects of the iranian issue are the massive violation of human rights, but above all the use of the death penalty as a method of punishment. whereas on 12 may 2010 the eu once again called on iran to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty, in accordance with un general assembly resolutions 62/149 and 63/168, iran continues to hold the world record for executions of juveniles, women and on grounds of sexual orientation. the commission is also concerned about the controversial nuclear programme, which is not sufficiently transparent and does not cooperate with the iaea and comply with its obligations under the npt. another problem is that of telecommunications and the internet, which are constantly being disrupted to the detriment of the international obligation to protect freedom of information. i therefore support this report in the hope that we will soon see an improvement in the situation.
in writing. - mr belder's report emphasizes in a pragmatic way all the concerns that the eu should have about iran. uncontrolled progress in nuclear testing, lack of basic freedoms, hostile climate towards foreign investment, government abuses, disconnection between the ruling class and civil society. i think that is enough to support a pragmatic approach by the eu towards a major player in the regional scenario in the middle east and to support mr belder's report.
in writing. the ahmadinejad regime continues to trample on the fundamental rights of the iranian people with impunity, while the government itself is shaken by various uncertainties. on the one hand, there are aspirations for democratic change among the population; on the other hand, the iranian government and parliament are troubled by the presence of internal factions within the elites vying for power. but there is no doubt that democratic change cannot be imposed from outside, but should be the result of a democratic and peaceful process, which finally gives reason to the demands for welfare and freedom of the recent iranian mass movements. the nuclear node is still open: for our part, the eu should work towards a diplomatic solution, based on an approach that combines pressure with simple dialogue. it would be advisable, for example, for the european council to be able to contribute to the freezing of the assets of individuals connected with iran's nuclear and ballistic programmes. in future, however, eu-iran relations should also focus on the analysis of the countless human rights violations. the union should use all the means at its disposal to formulate a unified european position and let the iranians know that we are thinking of their future. their human rights are our human rights.
in writing. the lack of transparency on the part of the iranian government and the lack of cooperation with the iaea on the nuclear programme are certainly troubling. the deterioration of the situation of fundamental human rights and its ability to destabilise the region through hezbollah and hamas are elements that add to the unease that iran spreads around the world. election fraud, violent repression of demonstrations and executions in 2010 reached 680 (double the previous year), the arrest of opposition leaders leave no doubt about the regime's use of power and violence. the union's sanctions, on 26 july 2010 in line with those of the un, were due and necessary. the union's increased attention to iran's nuclear policy is necessary for developments in the non-peaceful field. the union must support international diplomacy for the protection of human rights. the 'double track' approach keeps the door open to dialogue, but to dialogue there must be at least two of us, and in the absence of good will on the part of iran, sanctions must be strengthened and more targeted. it is unacceptable that executions should continue to increase at this rate and that nuclear policy should escape the control of the international community.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of this report because it highlights the main aspects which make iran one of the most dangerous countries on the international scene, both from a humanitarian and a political point of view. the country is now devastated by the arbitrary use of violence by the security forces, who have reacted with a ruthless crackdown on peaceful demonstrations by arresting thousands of protesters. this gratuitous use of violence has led to a progressive degradation of the fundamental human rights of the iraqi people, who are continually subjected to a system of punishment contrary to any convention on civil and political rights. as if that were not enough, the death penalty by stoning is still in force in this country, with an ever-increasing number of executions, without considering that the exclusively peaceful use of nuclear installations on its territory remains unproven.
in writing. - we welcome this report because it deals with the iranian question with the necessary toughness and severity, highlighting all the contradictions in the country and the unacceptability of the continuation of this situation. the iranian regime has a constant crackdown on anyone who dares to rebel against absolutism, with the death penalty being a regular feature. in fact, it has the highest number of executions of minors and per capita in the world. it also notes that the death penalty is often carried out by stoning even for offences of little criminal significance such as alleged cases of adultery and apostasy. the report also highlights the repression of christians and the baha'i community. iran continues to lose international credibility because of its rhetoric and aggressive policy and support for islamic fundamentalism. i also want to point out the continuing acts of psychological and physical violence to which the dissidents refugees in camp ashraf are daily subjected by the iranian government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr belder's report because, despite the fact that iran has a number of problems relating to its internal and external policy, such as the possible use of nuclear weapons, the lack of transparency in certain governmental choices and, in certain cases, the failure to respect fundamental human rights, i believe that a policy based exclusively on sanctions cannot bring much good. that is why i believe it is important for the european union to safeguard and, as far as possible, maintain forms of dialogue with the government in tehran.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, shahbaz bhatti was killed in the name of the so-called blasphemy laws by a group of fundamentalists who, as is increasingly the case, use the name of god to further their own power project. with this resolution we wish to applaud and thank shahbaz bhatti for the example he has set for us over the years. i hope that such a painful sacrifice will serve as a warning to the governments of the european union and to the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy so that concrete actions replace the few words, which have been spoken in half-heartedness until now. in fact, in recent months the european union, or rather the council and the commission, unlike parliament, have wasted time debating whether or not to include the word 'christians' in their weak condemnation documents, while christians continue to be brutally massacred, often because they are associated with the west, although they have nothing western. i therefore think that the commission and the council would do well to look to parliament in this context.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak before you made clear the determination of this parliament to call for the resignation of the other member, the last member, who has not yet resigned. i thank you and i thank parliament for its firm and determined decision to implement a zero tolerance policy, because the credibility of all of us in this parliament is at stake here, and above all we must remember that we represent 500 million citizens and not the lobbies, thank you.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the report we are about to vote, there are still reservations about the decision to adopt a revision of the treaty on the intergovernmental nature of the mechanism, but at the same time we are in favour of it because, as elmar brok has explained, the negotiations we have conducted have enabled us to achieve important objectives, particularly the fact that the conditionalities relating to aid will be defined by a regulation, and therefore by a codecision procedure. so it is right to give a favourable opinion and i would like to thank the many colleagues who have contributed to this result, the privilege of working with elmar brok, the very useful advice of ezio pirillo and then the work of the two rapporteurs of the econ committee: scicluna and gauzès, eli schado, dafne häfner and the group coordinators and, of course, the group chairmen who have given us a great deal of political support, thank you.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on the proposal for an amendment to the tfeu, adopted by parliament, concerning the establishment of a european stability mechanism for the euro area, is an important milestone in strengthening the cohesion and competitiveness of the economy and the stabilisation of the financial system. i voted in favour of the amendment, because of the importance of the euro in the european political and economic project, for the sustainable growth of europe. the stabilisation of the euro area is of strategic importance, and i believe that europe must take measures to strengthen it by strengthening its economic governance in view of the objectives to be pursued with the europe 2020 strategy. finally, i believe that the permanent stability mechanism should include the involvement of the community institutions, both to avoid duplication of structures and because the establishment of a mechanism outside the eu institutional framework would constitute a threat to the integrity of the system based on the treaties.
in writing. − the new european stability mechanism requires an amendment to the lisbon treaty to ensure its legal integration into the institutional framework of the european union. we believe that it should be accompanied by the strengthening of the preventive and corrective parts of the stability and growth pact and measures concerning medium and long-term competitiveness. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the european stability mechanism is therefore an important element of a comprehensive package of new measures (together with the european semester and the europe 2020 strategy) aimed at defining a new regulatory framework for the strengthening and coordination of economic and financial policies and budgetary discipline. in order to ensure respect for the essential principles of democratic decision-making, transparency, parliamentary scrutiny and democratic accountability, the european parliament will need to be adequately informed and involved. we also support the need for the national parliaments to be fully associated, in accordance with their respective budgetary and control powers, in order to increase the transparency, ownership and accountability of decisions taken at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to the treaty concerning a stability mechanism for member states whose currency is the euro. i hope that the member states will decide on the details and specifics of this very quickly. however, i do not think that the debate will stop here. i believe that in the coming months and years the question to be addressed will also be whether and how we can use these contributions. i am referring, for example, to the question of eurobonds. in a situation like the present, where on the one hand the member states are asked to implement strict budgetary policies to reduce deficits and debts and on the other hand contributions are requested for participation in the anti-crisis fund, there is a real risk of collapse and the danger that the member states will no longer be able to finance themselves. there can be no recovery of the european economy if, at the same time, the strength of the euro on international markets and the growth in creditworthiness induced by the recovery are not used. the collection of money at european level allows member states to cut costs, to avoid overlapping and to achieve a better return on their investment.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, during the mini-session in plenary session at the european parliament in brussels, the report 'amendment to the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning a stability mechanism for the member states whose currency is the euro' was voted on. on 16 december 2010, the european council decided to consult the european parliament in the framework of the simplified procedure for the revision of article 48 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the consolidated version, concerning a proposal for a revision of article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the consolidated version concerning a stability mechanism for member states whose currency is the euro. the aim of the proposal drawn up by my colleagues elmar brok and roberto gualtieri is to add a paragraph to guarantee member states whose currency is the euro the possibility of establishing a mechanism, to be activated if necessary, to safeguard the stability of the euro area as a whole, stating that the granting of any necessary financial assistance under the mechanism will be subject to strict conditions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of this resolution because i believe that the monetary policy of the euro must remain the exclusive responsibility of the european institutions, in order to avoid the duplication of decision-making structures which could be detrimental to european integration. at present, all member states coordinate their economic policies in accordance with measures dictated by the european institutions for the stability of the euro area as a whole. the current council draft could create a decision-making mechanism on the stability of the euro that is independent of parliament and the commission. the stability mechanism is therefore a common response to the challenges of economic and social growth and to encourage the introduction of the euro in the remaining member states. i hope that the establishment and operation of the permanent stability mechanism will involve the contribution of the entire european institutional framework, if necessary also through the use of the enhanced cooperation procedure, so as to ensure the transparency of all decisions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing turmoil in the southern mediterranean must not divert our attention from the objectives, including economic ones, which we have long set for the medium term. the international turmoil must instead accelerate the pace of growth of our economy: it is good that decisions to implement the 2020 strategy are taken quickly, already at this week's meeting. we don't know what will happen after the conflict in libya, but we are sure that nothing will be as before! europe therefore urgently needs a package of measures to enable the economies of the member states to catch their breath in the face of a new period of uncertainty. the most important question, of course, is the situation in the mediterranean. the mediterranean at war is the worst catastrophe the world can expect today. the countries which felt it was essential to act in this situation did well, but there remains the great contradiction of a european union which seems to be embarrassed, if not explicitly divided, about what to do. i would therefore like to make an appeal to the hungarian presidency: the european parliament and i believe the commission are close to this presidency, which has the opportunity to turn the crisis into something that is not simply solved by putting the european union into crisis. we have this huge responsibility: we must turn the crisis into an opportunity to produce, to give birth to a foreign policy worthy of this world. we are on the eve of epochal events, with our responsibilities, our doubts and our mistakes, and i believe that we must assume this responsibility to the full, making sure that the decisions taken at the council meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow are reasonable but above all courageous. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the measures announced in advance, i wonder whether the role of european politics is up to par today. the european union must be given the time it needs to assert its leading role, especially in foreign policy, but as we know, there are situations which are determined and which unfortunately do not leave us the time we wish and which require timeliness and foresight. it is now clear that we are still short of what is needed in the mediterranean and particularly in libya: it is also necessary to reflect a little more on the recognition that we may have needed a stronger initiative both in understanding what was happening and in putting in place a concerted action towards the mediterranean. it is clear that if we look at libya, there is a substantial difference between having a common action by the whole of europe and having a voluntary action by the countries concerned, as is the case today. no, we are not there yet, i say to the representatives of the council and the commission! there are some questions which the council has not answered and which it will have to answer quickly. i wonder whether, beyond the humanitarian effort, we are fully aware of what to do if the implementation of resolution 1973 is not sufficient and if some country goes beyond its mandate. secondly, i would like to know the council's opinion on the question of the operation's command: nato replied that it was playing a technical role, but not a political leadership role; we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it. finally, in the context of the ongoing operations and the relationship with the arab league and the african union, it is essential to avoid that the intervention is viewed in the end not positively, with the risk of generating unknowns and dangerous derivatives. is there this awareness? maybe there isn't any at all: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank the honourable members for a very responsible debate on next week’s european council. on behalf of the commission, i would like to comment on several speeches concerning libya and japan before commenting on economic issues. as you know, the commission has no competence on the security and defence front but we have been coordinating the european response to the escalating humanitarian crisis on the libyan borders. the no-fly-zone military action implemented according to un security council resolution 1973 brought new circumstances which need to be taken into account when delivering humanitarian assistance in a secure and efficient way to those in need, either at the borders or inside libya. it brought new hope as well that innocent civilian lives would be spared. although the events in japan have no immediate health consequences for citizens in the european union, it is important to take stock of eu nuclear safety policies, as well as contingency plans and safety measures in place. the commission uses all instruments available to monitor the impact, including on future safety. to my mind, japan teaches us that risks can become reality; what was thought to be impossible must now be included in our planning. a european approach for a comprehensive safety and risk assessment of nuclear facilities would maximise the effects at the european level. before drawing final conclusions, a full analysis of the accident in japan is essential; the assessment should cover the most important issues, such as safety requirements for earthquakes, as well as emergency power supply assistance for reactor cooling. on economic policy too, your debate reflected the magnitude of what is at stake at tomorrow’s european council and i trust that the messages sent from here will be heard and listened to in all capitals of europe. it is fair to say that the european union will have profoundly evolved after this march. the financial crisis which turned into an economic recession and then into a sovereign debt and banking crisis has forced europe to seek new ways forward, to consider all possible options and to take decisions with long-lasting consequences. as president barroso said in his opening remarks, we will respond to the challenge with a comprehensive strategy which builds on the strengths, values and institutions of the european union. it is exactly the kind of challenges which are facing us today that the european union was created for: to be able to withstand storms together and to be able by joint efforts to come out of a crisis stronger than before. as a result of very long talks for several months, the elements of a comprehensive response in economic policy are now finally there for the leaders of the union to agree and commit to in the european council tomorrow. the member states, and especially the euro area member states, are all pursuing intensified fiscal consolidation and growth-enhancing structural reforms with very strong determination. this is now the first and foremost cornerstone of making progress on this strategy. secondly, both the council and the parliament are delivering on your commitment to conclude the commission’s legislative package on economic governance by this summer. reinforced economic governance is indeed the cornerstone of our comprehensive response. thirdly, the permanent european stability mechanism will be made functional as of june 2013, with the effective lending capacity of eur 500 billion. by this decision we will have in place a financial backstop with a sufficient containment effect to clear away even the slightest doubt about our capacity to act even in the most stressed scenarios. the role of the commission in the running of the operations of the esm will be central, and the link of the esm to the eu institutions, of course including the european parliament, will be very clearly and firmly established. we shall in due course propose a regulation based on article 136 of the treaty clarifying the steps to define policy conditionality and to ensure consistency with the eu framework for country surveillance. last but not least, the banking sector repair must be completed, to safeguard the provision of credit to the real economy, to enterprises and to households. the next round of bank stress tests will be conducted in the coming months; the results will guide the necessary restructuring and possible recapitalisation of the eu banking sector. before the publication of results, all the member states will need to decide and present their strategies, if needed, for the possible restructuring and recapitalisation of their vulnerable institutions. it is indeed essential that we see that these two problems have to be resolved in parallel; financial repair must be accelerated, banks restructured and, if need be, recapitalised as soon as possible. this is a precondition for restoring and reinforcing confidence in the european economy, improving banks’ robustness, and ensuring that we safeguard economic growth through credit supply. to conclude, once the european council confirms its full commitment to all of these elements of our comprehensive economic strategy to overcome the crisis, the european union will be well on track for turning the economic tide this year, 2011. this does not mean all is fine, even less that we can sit back. but, yes, it does mean that we are prepared to face the current and emerging challenges and to prevent crises in the future.
the president of the council. - madam president, this is officer. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! first of all, thank you for this debate. i am grateful that the great majority of those in the chamber and those who have spoken in the debate have recognised the need for the six elements that will be the european union's common response to the economic crisis, and which i hope the heads of state or government will decide on thursday and friday. this is how we can end the crisis, this is how we can establish a basis for severely limiting the occurrence of similar crises. i very much agree with those who have said that the union is not in crisis, but that some of the member states, many of them, are in a debt crisis, a debt spiral. and that's what we have to stop. this is a priority for all of us in all member states. but we live in a union, we have a common monetary policy, we have a common currency. the debt crisis in individual member states is therefore a problem that we all share. that's why we need to find common solutions. an interesting debate has begun, which i think we'll have to deal with when we start negotiating the six economic governance bills in formal form. it's the difference between good debt and bad debt. is there a good debt? this is a very exciting debate. and you'll confirm what i'm saying, sir, that we've been dealing with this in the council, and the council is very skeptical about whether there is such a thing as good debt. and here, a member of the house of representatives said that in many cases, a debt that starts out good can end up being a very bad debt. let's continue this debate, but i think if we want to get out of the debt crisis once and for all, we need to find other ways to stimulate the economy and to start growth than by increasing debt. we should not make good investments at the expense of future generations. and so i think it is important to say that, as president barroso has indicated, we have the tools at our disposal: the further development of the single market, the removal of the remaining obstacles and the european union's strategy for 2020. a few words about the portuguese and irish situation. we all know that this will be the subject of the european council. i would like to say this about portugal: on 11 march, at the euro summit, the heads of state and government welcomed the portuguese package of measures announced, and the president of the european central bank welcomed it. so that was a positive message to the markets in itself. at the same time, it is very important to say that any action plan is only as good as the amount of it that is implemented. and it's very important that there is political commitment and clear support behind every undertaking. as regards ireland, i would like to say that the representative of the new irish government in the general affairs council on monday was very cooperative and i am very confident that we will find a solution to the irish problem at the european council. many argued that it was the community method or the intergovernmental method, and that the lisbon strategy had also failed because of its intergovernmental nature. i think we've come a long way since february 4th. on 4 february, a lot of member states and a lot of meps - i spoke to them at the time - were afraid of where we were going, what would happen to the european union if we outsourced important things. i think we've improved a lot, we're back to the community method. our task as the presidency, from the very first minute, was to try to facilitate the birth of a viable solution between the outsourcers and those who only stay within the community. the hungarian prime minister, back then, on 4 february, said and asked that the european council's conclusions include a reference to the fact that we must implement the then-current competitiveness pact in accordance with the treaties. i'm very happy to say that we are back to the community method. the european commission, one of our most community-oriented bodies, has a major role to play in all elements of our six-pronged economic response, so the european parliament has been given guarantees of access to information. so we've come a long way and in a positive way. the european act is also open, and those member states, like my country, can join it if they wish. there is no closed club. and finally, a final appeal to reiterate my request that we continue the discussion of the sixth package of economic governance legislation in the most constructive spirit possible. we are ready for this and i would like to say that we have already taken account of the reports of the members, which were ready in january, when we were drawing up the council's position. libya and the mediterranean. war and instability are the greatest tragedy that exists for the people of the region and the european union. i think i'm going to quote representative mauro and i agree with him. we have the opportunity and the task to turn this crisis into an opportunity to prevent such tragedies from happening again in the mediterranean. i think it is safe to say, and i am a strong supporter of frank discourse, that this parliament has been quicker in its decision-making than the council. at the last moment, the coalition was able to create an operation that saved many lives in benghazi. how united we are and how effective the eu's common foreign and security policy is? i'd be a big believer in honest conversation here. we're not 100% on the same page. but we have been able to agree on a lot of things that have been vital in the last period. on march 11th, at the summit, the heads of state and government made it clear that gaddafi must go. that we should contact the provisional national council in benghazi. that we should call on the libyan authorities to allow humanitarian aid into the country. we decided then that we had to re-examine our relations with the southern neighborhood. this is a prerequisite for the start of democratic change. we agreed back then that we should increase financial support by putting in place the right conditions, that we should deepen trade relations and help bring about social change in the region. the three m's, market access, mobility and money -- these are the areas where we need to move forward. on 21 march, the foreign ministers, the depositaries of the csdp area of the cfsp, reiterated their commitment. by then, the un security council resolution 1973 was available. we welcomed this and we were able to welcome the decisions of the paris summit, which must now be implemented. we were very quick to impose sanctions and to make clear our determination to help civilians. the common foreign and security policy may not be perfectly functioning, but i think that very important decisions, even at the last minute, can be made. thank you very much, madam president.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the situation in japan, including the nuclear power stations.
, on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too wish to express my solidarity and admiration for the dignity, fortitude and cohesion shown by the japanese people in the face of a disaster of such magnitude and gravity as has rarely been seen in the world. the japanese people's behaviour is indeed an example for all of us and deserves our help. the lesson to be drawn from this experience is the need to strengthen the european civil protection system through closer coordination of responses and greater availability of men and means to be able to respond in time to disasters. as for the nuclear option, to discuss this issue on the emotional wave of what happened would be a mistake: the subject is too important and must be approached scientifically. it is right, very right, to strengthen the security measures for existing and new generation power stations and to dismantle the older and unsafe ones, but we must avoid political instrumentalisation and be prudent and pragmatic as mr brok has said. we remember that in the same area of fukushima during the earthquake a dam collapsed with many victims, but that is not why we are thinking of dismantling the dams or not building new ones, so caution, attention and openness towards the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it would be a grave mistake to turn this debate into a sort of trial against the dangers of modernity. we have to recognize that it is science and technology that allows us to live longer, to live in better conditions, to live looking with more confidence and taking into account that the conditions of food security have improved, that the conditions of our welfare systems have improved, that the conditions of a world that is recognized in a projection linked to the future have improved, precisely because science and technology have known how to use them, have known how to exploit them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. elmar brock is right, there is a mystery in our relationship with things that makes us realize that we are not masters of everything, that no matter how advanced we are, we are not the answer to all the problems that nature poses to man and the magnitude of this earthquake reminds us precisely that very likely conditions of inferior technology and science, have produced recently or a hundred years ago for example in messina, a phenomenon with more than 100,000 deaths, with a much lower earthquake intensity. this should give us a clear indication for the future: science and technology are tools, because we can use them to the full. so it will be good policy, what we do together as institutions, that will determine whether we have solutions today to get beyond the atomic age and project ourselves into the future or whether we still have to take them into account, and in the long term, to make possible that further development that we all need. but today we are being asked to do much more, to mobilize essentially for the pain and need of a people! i hear little of this in this chamber, because we are all concerned about a political debate which is intended to anticipate concerns which are not essentially linked to the agenda!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the japanese people who have been so badly affected by the disaster. it was a surprise to catch japanese technology failing in relation to the events that are constantly repeated in those territories. the fact that we have kept the technologically obsolete nuclear power station in operation is certainly not a secondary matter and these things should make us reflect on the european nuclear energy programme. we can 't let fear get the better of us and make rash choices today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised. europe cannot refrain from helping the japanese people, not only because of the emergency, but also because of the likely financial crisis linked to the terrible catastrophic event. in the short term, tokyo's economy will have to be dealt with, with likely consequences for the countries closest to japan. let us not forget that the government was already weak and without a majority in the upper house before the catastrophe, so there could also be an executive crisis on the horizon.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have listened to your contributions with great attention and i thank you for the great objectivity shown both in the face of the disaster and its consequences. it was about compassion, concern and offers of help. there's nothing to add to that. this gives us the strength to do what the presidency and the commission have to do. it's about disaster prevention in general. i think that the commission's communication on reinforced european disaster prevention, which the council adopted last december, is a good indication of the direction to take. we must improve cooperation in the framework of disaster prevention procedures at european level and provide adequate financial and human resources and we must coordinate at european level. i am sure that mrs georgieva will make concrete proposals to parliament and the council in the course of the year. as far as the subject of energy policy in europe and the conclusions of the review from japan is concerned, i think we should first of all be very honest with the facts and realities. i would like to take the german federal government with the parties to which i belong. there has been a substantial course correction proposed. in germany, seven nuclear power plants are currently shut down. the reactions ranged from "not very credible" to "typically german fear". that is to say, we should consider whether respect for the other position should not be the starting point. i would like to pay tribute to the parliament which, a few years ago, made a clear commitment to the sustainable use of nuclear energy in the european energy mix, but which has certainly also become thoughtful. secondly, my respect for the regulatory authorities. i have read the euratom treaty again very carefully and i have also looked at the nuclear safety directive which was adopted by the council and parliament in june two years ago. the second provides many formal requirements, i.e. authorities to be created, information and reporting obligations and more, but hardly any concrete material requirements for construction or operating technology or only very general requirements. that is to say, if parliament proposes today to extend european legislation, i am prepared not to wait for the member states' reports in 2014 and then to submit a report to the commission, but to demand now that this directive be transposed into national law by july this year at the latest - that is the duty of the member states - so that, if necessary, with further findings from japan and perhaps from the nationwide stress tests, a proposal from the commission for further, concretised material requirements for nuclear safety can be discussed here in brussels as early as next year. i was told i had to "make it happen". i'm not familiar with the term. i want to be guided by the question: what powers have the european legislators given me and what powers have they not? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. and i'm actually more comfortable in the middle. if you're criticized from both sides, you may have found the right middle ground. of the 143 nuclear power plants that will be on the grid in the next decade - not just this decade - and, at least according to the will of today's governments, many - not all, but many - will still be on the grid in the decade after that. it is therefore in our interest to propose the highest safety standards and further reduction of risks for the medium and longterm nuclear power stations on the grid. secondly, i now expect that new nuclear power stations will be built in europe, in accordance with the competence of the member states, their parliaments and governments. we can see what is coming in relation to the referendum in italy in june, and i understand that so far, apart from germany, no course correction is being made in any of the thirteen member states where there are nuclear power stations. i am very much aware of the discussions in the governments and parliaments and also of the media. we must also see that this is a european issue, but it is also a global issue. we must have an interest in ensuring that - since nuclear power will be around for many decades to come - the highest standards are the focus not only of our country but also of the world. that 's why i 'm welcoming ... (interruption of the debate) mr turmes, i am really trying to be objective and avoid any excitement. i recommend you do the same. if you say i should not trust mr sarkozy, i trust him to put the matter on the agenda of the g20 summit. this is an important achievement in itself: to bring the subject to the attention of americans, chinese, russians and others who have nuclear power stations and are planning new nuclear power stations or who have the capacity to build nuclear power stations in their countries through large industrial groups. that is why i believe that reassessing risks and raising safety standards is imperative, whether you are for nuclear power or whether you are against nuclear power, because nuclear power will be part of our global future. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) you should not be here to recall debates from two years ago. i'm the wrong person to talk to about that. you can do that when someone else is speaking. i do not think i am the right man for the job. the question of the energy roadmap 2050 and the claims that it would not sufficiently promote and finance renewable energy sources. you underestimate your own decisions, which we want to monitor and guarantee. 20% renewable energy in just nine years is really, in the crucial area, in the electricity area, which is really the first thing, 35%. we are on track to get 35% of our electricity from renewable energy sources and the member states are doing so renewable energy sources will overtake nuclear power in electricity generation in four to five years, while also overtaking coal. this means that we are on our way to renewable energy becoming the main source of electricity in europe. then, in late spring, we'll present our concepts and scenarios for the energy roadmap 2050. but it's not just about 2050 - a distant time - it's also about 2025, about 2030, the time for which we need to invest in infrastructure and production capacity now. i don't want to make a commitment here, but we will certainly not be at 35% renewable energy by 2030, but we will be at 40% plus or even 60% or something in between. if this is the case, it is not that renewable energy sources are not being promoted enough, but that renewable energy sources will be the main contributors to the energy mix in our lifetime. (interruption by mrs harms) mrs. harms, i'm talking about the energy roadmap, you talk about the co2 roadmap, but that's not the same thing. we have not reduced the targets for 2020 at all. we have left it exactly where it is, at 20% stand alone and 30% when others follow us, as has always been decided by parliament, the council and the commission and offered globally. no change in that. but now we are talking about renewable energy sources, and we will get to over 40%. we have thus laid the foundations for the fact that the energy mix is no longer a matter for the member states alone, but that the member states are responsible for 50% or a little more. secondly, we have also set out how the bases for support are to be created, how the financial and technical equipment in the member states is to be set up with us. you can assume that the scenarios mr turmes also seriously consider what is proposed by various associations, namely to go up to 100% renewable energy sources. but then you have to look at the law - it's worth looking at - article 194, which says unchanged: the energy mix is a matter for the member states. for me, the lisbon treaty is not the bible, but it is the basis on which i must work, knowing what rights the member states have, which they insist on, whether in berlin, luxembourg, paris or london. i would like to make one final point. i listened very carefully to what mr davies and mr hall said. both belong to the same party. both are from the same member state. and they're both 180 degrees opposite. i respect that. if a small party in a large country thinks as differently as two honourable members of parliament, if the same party in their country was against nuclear power before the election and is going to settle for it after the election, i still respect that. but this shows the dimension of how it exists ecologically, economically and politically, which is why we always see a division. part of the process is going down as well as up on a global scale.
the president of the council. - mr president, officer! ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! i promise i'll keep it short. compassion and cool head. i think those are the two things that should be guiding our actions now. compassion, help the japanese people in whatever they need, listen to them and act where they see the need. and it takes a cool head to make the right decisions about our own future at the right time. we must not be swayed by events to decide on a matter of such importance. what is certain, and no one in this room has disputed that today, is that we must do everything we can to achieve maximum security. we also have a duty to inform the citizens fully so that they understand what is at stake, when, what and how we will decide. it's very important to draw conclusions and learn lessons. let us analyse, let us not be slow, but let us not be too hasty and draw conclusions now that may not hold up in a few weeks or months. as far as stress tests are concerned, i just want to say that now, under the current regulations, they are voluntary. i am sure that the council would not hesitate to make changes to the legal bases and the framework that currently exists. we need to work this out, put the right proposal on the table. there's no need to rush, but of course the work must begin. the commissioner also mentioned that the energy mix is a national competence. each member state decides on its own energy needs. half of the member states, let's say, on the order of magnitude, half of them use nuclear energy. we can impose security on anyone with the right legal basis, but the choice and responsibility are with the member states. i am pleased to note that the commissioner mentioned that the report could be ready by july 2011. and one last thought. research and development, we talk about it a lot. it is also one of the cornerstones of the european union's 2020 strategy. our task is to create the best possible conditions for research and development in the european union. we have a lot of work to do. we should be able to find safer and more environmentally friendly forms of energy production through research and development. so let's put science in the service of the maximum security of man and man. thank you very much, mr. president.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing demand for energy requires diversification of the supply of energy sources other than oil, such as renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and nuclear. i do not think that nuclear energy is a subject that can be discussed on the basis of the emotions of the moment. i am afraid that the usual anti-nuclear interests, often financed by the oil companies, will try to exploit what has happened in japan to encourage our country's energy dependence on oil and its derivatives. more than 8,000 people in italy and more than 350,000 in europe die each year from pollution caused by the combustion of petroleum products. in addition, as regards the identification of possible sites on the site, i would stress that this choice is facilitated by the technical and scientific indications of the experts who will enable the administrators to make the most appropriate choices to ensure the safety of citizens and respect for the environment. i hope that the discussions on alternative energy sources to oil can be approached objectively, ensuring that the european citizens are properly informed, so that we do not become even more dependent on the instability of the oil-producing countries because of the easy exploitation of the latter.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the earthquake of 11 march, the consequences of the crisis in japan for nuclear safety and the world economy have shaken a european union already grappling with instability in north africa. i welcome the decisions taken at the extraordinary meeting of the energy ministers to examine the implications of the accident at the fukushima plant and i am confident in the determination of the member states to carry out 'stress tests' of nuclear power stations in the european union, to be extended also to non-european countries and above all to neighbouring countries. in this context, and taking due account of the decision of some member states to impose a nuclear moratorium and the fact that public consultations on energy development are imminent, it is important that the commission reports on the safety situation of european nuclear power stations whose accidents could affect neighbouring regions of member states.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, mr schwab, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i am pleased that we have finally put this proposal on the agenda. as you know, the council reached agreement on this subject in december last year and on 24 january 2011, under the hungarian presidency, the council formally adopted its preliminary position, i.e. the general approach. the agreement required more than two years of negotiations in the council on the ideal balance between eu and national consumer rights legislation and on which aspects of consumer rights could be harmonised accordingly. the difficulties of this proposal are best illustrated by the fact that it took more than 60 meetings of the council working party to produce a text which could be supported by a qualified majority of member states. the commission also found it impossible to reach agreement on the fourth and fifth chapters of the proposal, which deal with the sale of goods and unfair contract terms. due to the persisting difficulties, the council finally decided to omit these two chapters from the text and instead focus on off-premises contracts and contracts concluded between absentees. this approach was also supported by the commission, as the council text creates added value at union level for these contracts. the presidency believes that the european parliament can give further impetus to the debate. that's why the vote tomorrow on the proposed amendments is so important. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more effective role in the fight against terrorism. we are prepared to make every effort to achieve this. of course, much will depend on the amendments proposed by parliament. as i have already mentioned, there is a significant difference of opinion between member states on the content of chapters 4 and 5, namely whether certain aspects of purchase and guarantee conditions and unfair contract terms should be fully harmonised at union level. the presidency believes that it is necessary to focus on the other provisions of the directive, namely chapters 1 and 3, as this is where we can create real european added value. the council's general approach on these points does not differ significantly from the parliament's draft amendments, which were voted on by the juri and imco committees on 20 january and 1 february respectively. mr. president, commissioner and members of the house. we are ready to cooperate fully with parliament and the commission to ensure success. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr harbour, the chairman of the imco committee, and all the members of the imco committee for the full cooperation they have given to the hungarian presidency so far. i do not know what the outcome will be, whether we will be fully satisfied with where our negotiations are going, but i am convinced that we cannot miss the opportunity to secure a much wider range of consumer rights for eu citizens.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, next year we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market. we have to ensure that the single market brings benefits to consumers and to businesses. over two years of negotiations have shown that it is politically very difficult to reach an agreement on the whole directive on the basis of what was proposed by the commission. many of you do not want to see – and rightly so – a decrease in the level of national consumer protection. we are now well into the third year of discussion on this piece of legislation. i believe it is high time for the co-legislators to find a solution. in this regard, i am particularly grateful to your committees, to the rapporteurs, to mr schwab and ms wallis and to the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work in search of a compromise. the council agreed on a general approach at the beginning of the year. it has decided to considerably narrow the scope of the proposal and to specifically target distant and off-premises contracts. the commission believes that the council’s general approach is a good starting point in our search for a good compromise. in broad terms, it is consistent with the aim of improving the functioning of the internal market while creating added value for consumers. i know that, by your amendments, you seek additional improvements. i can see many reasonable suggestions for further increases in consumer protection and, as i have said before, the consumer rights directive should be a rights directive. it should be worthy of that name. to give you some examples: i could easily except your amendment 122, which ensures that consumers will not be charged for sending back goods after a withdrawal if they are worth more than eur 40. i am also not opposed to the extension of the withdrawal period to one year if the consumer was not informed of his right of withdrawal (amendment 116). i could also support a harmonised solution for fighting so-called internet cost traps (paragraph 1(a) and (b) of amendment 107). it will not come as a surprise to you when i say that i cannot accept all your amendments which are now on the table. for example, amendment 141. even if my goal is also to serve the internal market, it is going a step too far to oblige distance traders to supply goods or deliver services in any other member state. after all this time, and notwithstanding the differences which do remain, i see light at the end of the tunnel. i am confident that an acceptable and balanced compromise is now within our reach. i will do what i can to help you reach such a compromise.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr schwab on the work he has done so far and on the excellent cooperation between the legal affairs committee and the imco committee. the fact that we have provided for different degrees of harmonisation of the rules will enable us to achieve important results which will provide real added value for the european citizens. the commission has also proposed a new directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. these are improvements which will increase consumer confidence, particularly in cross-border purchases, by providing legal certainty which is essential for the development of electronic commerce. this directive will also lay the foundations for other complementary measures, from the reform of european contract law to the process of reviewing alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. this fundamental harmonisation measure is a sine qua non for the creation of an internal market focused on the rights of its consumers and serving the citizens of the european union. about a year ago, professor monti said in his report to president barroso: 'consumers and their welfare must be at the heart of the next phase of the single market.' first, the legislator should reach agreement as soon as possible on the draft directive on consumer rights, so as to ensure a high level of protection in an integrated retail market. this measure fully meets the requirements and i am convinced that mr schwab will be able to maintain the necessary determination in the complex negotiations that will follow before the final adoption of the text.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, customer rights are just one of many examples of the great difficulties facing the european institutions at this historic moment in time to carry out acts of great legal and political importance. we would like to see all the work done and the positive things achieved not lost, such as our amendment on the right of return, which is intended to bring about a clear improvement in the activities of small traders without affecting the prerogatives of consumers. if the outcome of the negotiations with the council is to erase the good things that the rapporteur and the groups had introduced into a proposal that was badly conceived, or if the outcome is to raise the level of general harmonization of the directive, we could only pass to a negative vote. in any case, the european parliament is not responsible for this situation, but the european commission. there are issues on which we eurocritics in the northern league are also prepared to say yes to a high level of harmonization, but only when this is in line with common sense, the interests of citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises and, why not, the prerogatives of the member states. on a complex issue such as consumer protection, an approach that took account of all this was needed from the outset. we welcome the withdrawal of many amendments which were calling into question matters which had already been resolved. it is essential that if the text is to be adopted by the house in accordance with the agreed amendments, the council should accept it in its entirety.
in writing. our supermarkets are less and less under the house and the shopping we do is less and less between one shelf and the other, with the product in hand, the smells of fresh food and the comments of people. our shopping is increasingly remote and the internet has completely changed our habits, also thanks to a life that has become increasingly hectic. this is the concrete, tangible manifestation of what in the textbooks is called "global economy". what's the difference between the internet and the supermarket? that on the internet you can't stop and ask the salesman for advice on what to choose between one product and another, nor can you go back to the supermarket if there's something wrong with your product to go get another one off the shelf after you've shown the receipt at the checkout. that is why the european consumer rights directive is fundamental in terms of the obligations it imposes on product information, the rules it lays down on defective products which will have to be replaced, repaired or reduced in price, in order to make the protection of online sales no less strong throughout europe than that of on-the-spot sales.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, international trade has one of the few differentiating instruments in favour of developing countries in the generalized system of preferences: it's a delicate instrument to use in the best way! we are talking about an extension tonight, so we are postponing the commission meeting once the new final proposal is presented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so far, even on the basis of the pre-lisbon treaty, the european parliament has not always been fully involved in the decisions taken, as it was at the time of the discussions which animated this parliament on colombia or sri lanka. in addition, the ex-post evaluation of a decision implementing the regulation should be given greater weight. what is the impact of a tariff reduction, its suspension, its mechanisms and its procedure? sometimes an on-the-spot examination of these aspects can reveal surprises and suggest more relevant criteria to make the impact of the regulation as effective as possible. the conditions are changing, the instrument must be more accommodating than those countries which are rewarded with tariff concessions. the principle of respect for human rights must be complemented by a broader vision, in which, as the rapporteur, mr scholz, who i thank for the excellent work he has done in this report, points out, various indicators are examined: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. if we adopt a combination of these criteria, i would not be surprised if we now have a list of beneficiary countries which is different from the present one and perhaps more deserving, but we can return to this once we have the final proposal for a regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this measure concerns generalized tariff preferences, that is to say, tariff concessions for those third countries which have undertaken certain commitments under international treaties or conventions on sensitive subjects such as labour, rights and the environment. these requirements must be periodically reviewed and updated on a proposal from the european commission, and unfortunately we are voting here not for a revision but for an extension of the old rules. at a delicate time of international crisis, not only economic but also political, not to review and update the conditions for accession or exclusion from the list is a choice that goes against the very interests of the european union. we shall vote in favour of this instrument, despite the non-linear behaviour of the european commission, because we believe in this instrument of facilitation for third countries which stand out from others on issues considered to be strategic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that none of us has any doubt that the pot is full. the european union's attitude towards turkey must be put into action! the arrest of the orthodox christian patriarch on christmas day for celebrating mass in a church in the occupied part of cyprus, and the arrest of nine journalists on 3 march, were not enough to convince baroness ashton to take action in agreement with president van rompuy against turkey. but now, after the arrest by turkish security forces in the occupied part of cyprus of four members of the european parliament and the bishop representing the orthodox christians to the european union, i think they too have no doubt: it is clear that we cannot continue to take a slap in the face from turkey, thinking that simply stopping the accession procedures to the european union is not enough as a countermeasure! once and for all we must have the courage and the strength to make it clear to that government that it either adheres to the treaties, human and civil rights and freedoms, or the european union must have the courage to break off all diplomatic and commercial relations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are considering today is not only a document on the priorities of the next european budget, but it is also, and above all, a strategic document on the new role that the european budget must play in the context of stronger economic governance. this year is the first year of the european semester, a semester designed to create the greatest possible coordination between the union's budget and the member states' budgets, to create the greatest possible synergy, the greatest possible complementarity, and all this basically means one thing: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. today, these objectives, the european objectives, can only be those of the 2020 strategy, a large, ambitious strategy with five very important targets and seven major flagship initiatives. they're important, big goals, but they're also very specific. the first target is very important: it is a question of building a more and better employed europe through the right investments. we therefore have a high priority for the 2012 budget: we must not waste time in making the 2020 strategy a reality, starting with the very first of the targets, more jobs in europe. it is therefore essential and urgent that we start defining the dimension of the 2020 strategy in our budget now. to do this, two basic things are needed: we need to plan, we need to look ahead. design means excluding mathematical approaches to budgeting, it makes no sense! a mathematical increase, a dry and indiscriminate increase is not useful! we need to look at exactly what programmes and actions are useful to our 2020 strategy. looking to the future means one thing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is also a very important issue, which is that of flexibility. we are at the end of the programming period and therefore the budget is particularly tight. i therefore believe that it is really important to consider from the outset all the available flexibility instruments as fundamental, indispensable for this budget we are about to draw up, if we want it to be not only possible, not only fundamental for taking the first step towards the 2020 strategy which cannot be a failure at all, as we have seen in the past, but also if we want it to be a useful and effective budget. i am convinced that all these great objectives will be possible only if we patiently build together, from the outset, a renewed climate of institutional cooperation. institutional cooperation is one of the great challenges of the lisbon treaty, which we always talk about with little attention. institutional cooperation really means finding a climate of renewed parity to work together on this delicate issue, the budget, which is one of the most not only strategic but also the most real and most real instruments for building our future.
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome parliament’s position on the priorities of the 2012 budget as reflected in the proposed guidelines. the commission, in line with its right of initiative, will of course take into account parliament’s guidelines and also assess the guidelines of the council. on the other hand, we have to take into account the most recent data coming from the 27 member states, and we will have our services carefully scrutinise and evaluate those elements in order to shape the draft budget on 20 april. this is now the second test of the annual procedure under the lisbon treaty. the context of financial consolidation is obvious to everybody. i think, in such a context, that it would be responsible to take into account and respond to all the fiscal financial obligations of the european union, but also to bear in mind the context of austerity which is the reality in the member states. at this time, more than ever, no-one could argue against the need to base the budget on the principles of rigorous and sound budgeting. it has never been so important to look for savings, but we should also use the tool of the european budget in order to help europe in this post-crisis situation. with that in mind, i would point out two differences between national budgeting and europe’s budget. national budgeting is mainly about social transfers, about consumption. the european budget is about investment with multiplier effects. therefore it could be conducive to growth and jobs. it is not good or sound budgeting to fail to pay out on the outstanding commitments agreed on in previous years, so both must be taken into account when shaping the final draft proposal for 2012. as mentioned in the letter from the president of the commission, and as the rapporteur, ms balzani clearly stated, we must ensure sufficient funding for expenditure under the 2020 strategy. yes, we have to coordinate the efforts of national and european budgeting, but on the other hand, we must be especially rigorous when it comes to administrative expenditure – hence the commission’s commitment of less than 1% for administration. that means savings as regards contractual obligations and savings in areas such as conferences, mission costs, meetings and information technology. taking into account what happened last year, we hope that this time it will be a smoother procedure, building on the experience of 2011. therefore i am looking forward to our first trialogue meeting on 30 march. then we will be ready to present our draft budget for 2012.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the guidelines we are about to vote on are the first step towards the european budget for 2012. the european people's party has from the outset expressed its support for the preparation of a preliminary report setting out parliament's priorities for the next budget, to be submitted to the commission, as the council has done. we have contributed to widening the spectrum of priority policies and shared the rapporteur's balanced approach by including some strong and recognisable priorities which are also part of the tradition of the european people's party, such as the development and growth of europe together with research and innovation. i believe that these are the policies on which we must invest for the future of the union and that parliament should stress them while awaiting the presentation of the preliminary draft budget by the commission. we have also insisted on the concept of responsibility, as commissioner lewandowski rightly pointed out a short while ago, as the heart of the 2012 budget. this is not to say that we have not had budgetary responsibility until now, but to point out that today, more than yesterday, because of the crisis, we must behave responsibly. finally, i think it is necessary to refer to what has happened and is happening in many north african countries, precisely to show our rejection of medium-term approaches, incapable of allowing for the proper management of unforeseen events or new policies. as regards the technical aspect of the vote, i think it is useful to keep the text produced by the committee on budgets essentially unchanged and i express my strong reservations about the need proposed by the gue group to include the financial transaction tax, which, regardless of the substance, does not seem to me to be or to have any relevance for the 2012 budget procedure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report, which is supposed to set out the european parliament's guidelines for the 2012 budget, seems to me to be rather meaningless. it is only a series of vague statements and it is not clear to me what the priorities are, the real priorities of parliament in relation to the drafting of the new budget. the europe 2020 strategy is cited as an example on several occasions. it is a broad strategy, perhaps too ambitious and too costly. what do they want to prioritize at least? the national states themselves have to deal with the budgetary risks and the consequences of the crisis, and we are not so naive as to think that great things can be achieved at european level. i would therefore prefer less intentions and fewer words, but rather an indication of a few, limited and precise lines of intervention. i am aware that this report is a general guide, but in my view it is almost useless and an end in itself.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. the 2012 budget, like the 2013 budget, will be consolidation budgets, designed to reflect the containment of expenditure by the member states and intended to represent a reference point for the amounts to be fixed in the next financial framework. the contribution of the epp in the 2012 budget guidelines was based on the concept of responsibility, which means pursuing the objectives of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, with the minimum of available resources. the 2020 strategy is focused on important priorities which were not initially contained in the balzani report, such as research, innovation, development and growth, but which are strongly emphasised by our political group. the priorities of the union require adequate funding. it is therefore important to ensure flexibility between expenditure headings to better compensate for the difficulties linked to the economic crisis and to propose a budgetary framework which includes own resources. however, i am not in favour of raising these resources by introducing a financial transaction tax as proposed by the gue group. i am in favour of the commission going into more detail on how to tackle this extremely important issue technically in order to affirm and realise european added value.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will address three points only. on the 2020 strategy adjustment, a clear point in ms balzani’s guidelines: in the current 2011 budget, 41% of expenditure could be attributed to the goals of the 2020 strategy. the same effort is being made for the 2012 strategy, but we must make the readjustment effort within the framework which was agreed several years ago, the 2007-2013 framework. it is, of course, limiting our room for manoeuvre that the adjustment must be done within the framework of the multiannual agreement dated 2006. secondly, my reaction to mr elles – but not only to him: the same remark about negative priorities was also made by mr geier and ms hohlmeier. i am afraid that this is a true story about 2012’s budget. it should be like that. this time more than ever, in addition to positive priorities, we should examine what is not performing. we are looking at what is not performing, what is not properly administered in order to find savings. we are thinking as much about positive priorities this time as about negative priorities. for the administration, austerity is a must. my response to mr herczog about the waste of money: administration accounts for only 5.7% of the total budget of the european union. this is a lower proportion than in the municipalities of rotterdam and many other dutch cities famous for a frugal approach to budgeting. in response to ms andreasen: she was not only talking about freezing the budget. she was talking about cutting it. our budget, the european budget, which is without deficit, cannot be blamed for the mismanagement of public finances in many member states. it has its logic, as so clearly explained by mr gerbrandy. the logic is all about the maturity of programmes with time. this is not surprising. this is our credibility. the european budget has its own credibility which is all about commitments and accomplished projects paying out. even in times of austerity, you have to pay your electricity bills. this is really about our credibility. this is about cohesion. this is really an investment, and its nature therefore probably also responds to some of the calls by those who are now demonstrating outside parliament and the berlaymont building.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the word 'responsibility' has been used many times in the course of the debate. but there is a responsibility which i consider to be a very important one for the institutions: we have a responsibility first of all to implement our programmes, to ensure that our citizens do not have only our words! we have a responsibility to be consistent with what we say and what we promise! the big projects today are those of the 2020 strategy. the first target, 'more jobs', is not only very ambitious, but it is very specific, even measurable with unemployment reduction parameters. it seems to me a very specific, very ambitious goal and i think it is crucial that we start working on it to achieve it. as long as we continue to think that the 2020 strategy is too big, too ambitious to be reduced to a concrete document such as the budget, i think we will only increase the risk of another failure, and that is exactly what nobody wants, and i think the commission, if i remember correctly, is the first communication on the 2020 strategy. but there's something else that's important: austerity is not a policy, it's not a tool, it's a condition. a condition to which we must react; i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. the european semester is just that, not just to make the first six months of the year more difficult! it allows us to make a global strategy, to create synergies and to create synergies between the budgets of the member states and our budget is an extraordinarily european system to give more value to public resources and to create a real, real method to make this long and ambitious 2020 strategy a european reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs balzani for her excellent work. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first, more generally, is the explicit reference to the eu budget and its redistributive nature as the archetypes of european solidarity. the second, more specifically, reaffirms the principle that commitments to be cleared which are particularly high in the cohesion field should be discharged and not simply cut, as the council maintains. the third one raises doubts, which i believe are justified, about the effectiveness of the forecasting criterion based on the previous year's performance. the fourth calls on the commission to make proposals for the creation of new resources, and in particular new resources must be directed at countering the persistent effects of the crisis by a concrete and effective commitment to policies for innovation, research and economic and productive development and employment in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize, but at such an important time a document such as the one launched today is certainly based on criteria of common sense and reasonableness. support for the 2020 strategy is certainly an expression not only of the credibility but also of the consistency of the european parliament's action. some important criteria and guidelines will, however, need to be further strengthened through a list of priorities for action. today, at such a delicate time, when the difficulties are closely linked to a rapidly changing reality, especially in the mediterranean but also in japan, there is a need for an authoritative and credible parliament, with answers that give strength to growth, competitiveness and the intelligent sustainability of the things to be done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that at a very delicate time, as was said a moment ago, for the finances of the member states of europe, i should like to sound a warning about an expenditure which is being discussed in the committee on budgets: it is a matter of the glaring case - i would call it a disgrace if it were approved - of the enormity of the expenditure planned for the house of european history. we already own the eastman building, but for the renovation alone, we're looking at 26 to 31 million, plus 3.3 million for the projects alone. fixed costs: over eur 3 million, variable costs: the commission has already decided to grant a loan of eur 3,2 million to the staff of 50 people, eur 3,2 million to security, eur 2 million to security, and eur 13,45 million to management alone. i think we should set an example with our institutions, of careful spending. that would be a shame.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, administrative simplification and easier access to relevant information are the right tools to make the european labour market more attractive to workers from third countries. the introduction of a single application procedure for the issue of a combined permit comprising both the residence permit and the work permit in a single administrative act will help to simplify and harmonise the rules currently in force in the member states. this will make the procedure clearer and more efficient for both migrants and employers, while facilitating checks on the legality of residence and employment. the single procedure will also make it possible to reduce the disparity in rights between citizens of the union and citizens of third countries. i therefore voted in favour of mrs mathieu's report.
the fragmentation of consumer rights rules is undoubtedly a very important obstacle to both cross-border buying and selling, and it is also a problem for the effective creation of a genuine internal market. i believe that the proposal for a directive which has been referred back to committee today can, with important additions, help to set out a clear legal framework on consumer rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report seeks to put an end to the fragmentation of the regulatory framework which has hitherto hindered the completion of the internal market by revising the four existing directives: the aim is to improve the functioning of the market for consumers and businesses, increasing the confidence of the former in the market and reducing the reluctance of businesses to operate across borders. the proposal is complex and has many specific aspects which have been examined and debated since the last french presidency. with the new barroso commission, led by commissioner reding, total harmonisation was no longer considered a dogma and we have rightly embarked on the road towards more targeted harmonisation. although i am not entirely satisfied with the result achieved, which i consider to be modest and the result of a compromise downwards, i believe and hope that this proposal can serve as a starting point for further developments. that is why i have supported this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text voted today is the result of a long and complicated process which began in october 2008 and aims to put consumer protection at the heart of cross-border purchases. the objective which the union and the community institutions must set themselves is to contribute to a better functioning of the internal market, aimed at increasing consumer confidence and at the same time supporting our businesses. the directive which the house is voting on today is the summary of four directives on this subject which have been in force up to now. it expresses the desire to harmonize much more effectively the rules currently in force in the various legal systems, avoiding the legal fragmentation which has unfortunately very often proved to be an obstacle both for businesses, whose objective is to be able to compete on the crossborder market, and for consumers. i therefore gave my assent and my vote in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the news of the earthquake swarm which has hit the far east, and japan in particular, since 11 march has left us all stunned by the scale of the human tragedy which is taking place. for these reasons i regard the resolution as a necessary first step towards ensuring that the civilian population of japan receives all the humanitarian, technical and financial support it will need in the months and years to come. i believe that the accident at the fukushima plant forces us all to think carefully, scrupulously and calmly about the risks of nuclear power. europe must invest and encourage member states to invest more and better in alternative energy sources. our thoughts are with japan today and our commitment for the future must be to prevent similar situations from recurring in europe and the rest of the world.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal provides for the amendment of the rules governing relations with the republic of moldova. the project, given the crisis period that the country is facing, would like to increase the share of wine imports from moldova. the commission believes that these imports would have a minimal impact on our markets, but i do not feel that i can support the proposal given the period of severe economic crisis which is already putting a strain on our farmers and wineries.
in writing. − in the framework of the eu's neighbourhood policy and the european neighbourhood policy, moldova has always pursued an ambitious programme of political association and further economic integration with the eu, steadily pursuing convergence of its legislation with community legislation and standards in preparation for future and wider negotiations. the country has shown that it is ready to promote and sustain the effects of such an ambitious undertaking, continuing on the line of progress achieved so far in the eu free market. we agree with the rapporteur, however, that the republic of moldova is in a difficult situation with regard to the export of certain products, which is causing problems for its economic recovery. we therefore consider it necessary to extend the regulation on certain autonomous trade preferences for three years, to give it sufficient time to prepare adequately for the negotiations on the free trade area. the report we have approved, based on these considerations, aims to promote the economic recovery of the country, in particular by increasing the tariff quota exempted from duties for certain products covered by the current autonomous trade preferences.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr moreira's report on the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova because it is in line with the union's neighbourhood policies and with the economic agreements already in place with other neighbouring countries. i think it is appropriate that the countries bordering the eu should be given reciprocal trade facilities for economic development and socio-political issues. the free movement of goods or a reduced customs duty allows for greater capital flows and facilitates cooperation agreements. this will benefit neighbouring countries, but also the internal market. clearly, the commercial purpose is important, but in doing so, other aspects must not be forgotten which must be taken into account.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova is going through a difficult period for its wine exports, which are adversely affecting the process of reform and economic recovery being pursued by its government. the wine sector employs some 300 000 people (a quarter of the country's working population), who live mainly in rural areas and farm small to medium-sized family plots. with these amendments, i believe that regulation no 55 of 2008 can help to support the economic recovery of moldova by providing wine-sector workers in that country with better prospects for the period 2011-2013. in order to pursue the best possible neighbourhood policy, it will now be important to continue with the customs facilitations aimed at not further undermining the economic situation of this country, while minimising tax losses for the eu.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations conference on trade and development in 1968 recommended the creation of a 'generalized system of preferences' (gsp) under which the industrialized countries would grant trade preferences to all developing countries on a non-reciprocal basis. the european community was the first to implement a gsp scheme, and since its inception, the gsp has been one of the main instruments of the eu's trade and development policy to help developing countries reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade. although this is the most widely used system among those implemented by the industrialized countries, i agree with the need to review the regulation in question in order to simplify the application of the system. i also believe that the general review should be addressed in the proposal for a new regulation, which i hope will be presented in good time. the new proposal should aim at greater clarity and transparency of the gsp system. i also call the commission's attention to the need to verify compliance with the commitments by regularly launching investigations involving the european parliament and representatives of civil society in the country concerned.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the generalized system of preferences has been one of the main instruments of trade policy to help developing countries reduce poverty. this is a continuation of the status quo, as no new regulation has been tabled, and that is regrettable. i shall nevertheless vote in favour of this instrument, given its importance.
in writing. - the resolution on the proposal for an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 732/2008 applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 january 2009 to 31 december 2011 was supported by a large majority in the house. without the extension of the gsp, developing countries could find themselves in a very difficult situation. since 1971 europe has been supporting and helping developing countries to reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the procedure for amending the gsp will involve the council and parliament, which will have to seek to create an effective system sensitive to the interests of the beneficiary countries, but requiring the latter to ratify and apply the 27 international conventions on the protection of human rights, sustainable development, basic labour standards and good governance. despite my support for this proposal for an extension until 2011, i would like to stress the regret, also expressed by my group, that the commission has been late in adopting the act.
in writing. - we are all convinced that, since its inception, the system of generalised tariff preferences (gsp) has been one of the main instruments of the european union's trade and development policy. it has provided a strong incentive for developing countries, long engaged in the fight against poverty, to promote free access to their markets and the importation of their products by means of tariff reductions. we agree with the rapporteur that the existing regulation on this matter should be extended, as this would ensure legal certainty, protect the interests of both the community and the beneficiary countries and avoid a prolongation of the present unsatisfactory situation. so far we have seen a certain under-utilisation of the trade preferences granted under the gsp, especially those linked to rules of origin, because of the difficulties in the administrative procedures which characterize them. targeted technical assistance, such as the provision of twinning programmes, should therefore be provided with the specific aim of promoting the development of regulatory capacity and ensuring the correct transposition of international conventions. finally, we believe that the commission should carry out a constant inquiry, involving the european parliament and the social partners concerned more closely.
in writing. − the regulation currently in force on generalised tariff preferences allowing free trade or lower duties in trade in products between european and non-european countries, a regulation generally used to promote trade with poor and/or developing countries, needs to be amended and reinstated as it is about to expire. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a new regulation on this subject because i agree with the objectives of the amendments which are being proposed. the amendment aims to create an effective system, more sensitive to the interests of beneficiary countries and economic operators, to develop more comprehensive rules and to guarantee the role of the european parliament as a democratic control body. i hope that this is the first step towards a solution, which must be found at the global level, aimed at finding a general agreement on trade. after the failure of the doha negotiations, these can only be provisional measures, with a view to a longer-term solution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 'generalized system of preferences' (gsp), under which industrialized countries grant trade preferences to all developing countries on a non-reciprocal basis, is one of the main instruments of the eu's trade and development policy to help developing countries reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade. the current regulation, which is valid until 31 december 2012, does not respect the new powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon. the new proposal for a regulation aims to create a system which is more sensitive to the interests of beneficiary countries and economic operators, to develop rules which allow for a more regulated reform process and to ensure that the regulation gives due weight to the democratic scrutiny required of parliament. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a new regulation aimed at making the gsp system clearer and more transparent.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union's generalised system of preferences is one of the main instruments for facilitating the growth of developing countries. for this reason, it must become operational in good time. as early as 1971, the european union distinguished itself from other economic powers by being the first to introduce a preferential tariff system for developing countries. the main aim is to eradicate poverty wherever it is endemic, allowing countries in difficulty to derive the greatest benefits from international trade. the current tariff agreement is expiring and the commission has set the deadline for the new proposal to be submitted in the coming months, but it will not enter into force until at least the second half of 2012. this delay will create a legal vacuum of more than six months, creating a discontinuity in the programme which risks jeopardising the many achievements already made. i hope that the delay will not reduce the use of the gsp and that the new agreement will promote the implementation of a global trading system based on ethics and democracy.
in writing. − this amendment to the eu-us air transport agreement is a great opportunity to develop the potential of a market which represents 60% of world air traffic. the european commission has taken important steps so far in its efforts to establish a borderless airspace between the eu and the us, in which investment can flow freely and airlines from both sides can provide air services without any restrictions. we now recognize the need for more intensive cooperation in order to meet ever new challenges in the field of safety and the environment and to promote further investment which will guarantee more free access to the market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: we recall the problematic issue of the exchange of passenger personal data between the eu and the us and the consequent relationship between international security and citizens' privacy. we believe it is essential to ensure that parliament is kept informed of the activities of the joint committee, foreign investment, infrastructure constraints on the exercise of traffic rights and the coordination of passenger rights policies.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the eu-us air transport agreement precisely to give it political weight, because the conclusion of the agreements, even though not considered by the rapporteur himself to be the best, offers a possibility of managing air transport that benefits in any case the citizens of the two continents both in their travel and in their commercial activities. further liberalisation of traffic rights, new opportunities for foreign investment and better coordination of passenger rights policies will ensure significant benefits for both the eu and the us.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu and us aviation markets together account for about 60% of world air traffic. the amending protocol to the air transport agreement provides for the opening of the market to eu and us airlines on a non-discriminatory basis and offers passengers and freight operators better services in terms of variety and cost, bringing substantial economic benefits and new jobs. further progress in cooperation and regulatory harmonisation in this area could also greatly contribute to competition neutrality, with particular reference to state aid and social and environmental rules. for the reasons set out above, i therefore vote in favour of the adoption of the amending protocol to the eu-us air transport agreement.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european and american airlines together account for about 60% of world air traffic, and represent an unparalleled economic reality in this sector. in fact, a greater opening of the european and us air markets would offer more services at lower costs, with positive economic and employment implications. common standards would in fact promote a more uniform integrated development, especially from the social and environmental point of view. i therefore welcome the fact that the agreement reached contains a number of incentives to promote such changes. the possibility of investing through equity stakes in the respective airlines, as well as better consultation and cooperation in the field of safety, are just some examples. i hope that parliament will now give its approval to the protocol amending the eu-us air transport agreement, avoiding the use of the suspension clause, which would mean the loss of the advantages acquired so far.
in writing. − although the eu and canada have long-standing economic and political links, before the current agreement, air navigation was the subject of bilateral agreements with only some of the member states. it is therefore necessary to pursue the objective of establishing a borderless airspace paving the way for the completion of a single air transport market, within which investment flows freely and airlines of both parties are able to provide services without restrictions. we believe that they should: remove current legal restrictions on the ownership of canadian airlines; the parties agree to cooperate in the development of a common approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, including the establishment of a common framework for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we can therefore say with conviction that the agreement we have approved today is indeed ambitious: it will significantly improve the links between their respective markets and create new opportunities for the sector. we do, however, recommend greater consultation and cooperation on the sensitive security issue and ask the commission to keep the european parliament informed of any developments and to follow the work of the newly established joint committee.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-canada air transport agreement is one of the most ambitious air transport agreements between the eu and a major world partner. it includes the gradual introduction of traffic rights and investment opportunities and broad cooperation on issues such as safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. the agreement will improve both links between their respective markets and personal contacts and will create new opportunities for the air transport sector through a liberalisation of foreign ownership rules. according to recent studies, an open agreement with canada would lead to an increase of half a million passengers in the first year and, over a number of years, it is estimated that an additional 3,5 million passengers could benefit from the opportunities offered by such an agreement. the latter could create a benefit for consumers of eur 72 million in terms of lower fares and would also generate new jobs. for the reasons set out above, i am voting in favour of approving the conclusion of the eu-canada air transport agreement.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite longstanding economic and political links, the only air navigation agreement in force between the eu and canada to date is the result of a set of bilateral agreements between the countries. the current protocol includes the introduction of traffic rights and investment opportunities, cooperating on a range of issues, in particular with enhanced security and protection guarantees. i am in favour of the text of this agreement because it introduces provisions for a gradual opening up of the canadian air market, giving greater freedom of investment to both parties. the commission has also received comments from the air safety committee and the air safety committee of canada.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new powers acquired by the european union also concern the field of air transport agreements. the agreement with vietnam provides for procedures for implementing various regulations, particularly on security. the recommendation is clear and i agree with it.
in writing. - the bilateral agreements concluded by the european union with third countries in the field of international air transport now require a radical revision: the court of justice has held that the traditional designation clauses contained in such agreements are totally incompatible with community law, since they infringe the freedom of establishment of companies from abroad and do not guarantee them the same treatment as the host member state accords to its own companies. we therefore welcome the conclusion of this agreement proposed by the commission, which aims to grant all european union carriers non-discriminatory access to routes to and from vietnam, avoiding any anti-competitive practice. the clauses on the possible taxation of fuel for air services should be deleted and it is desirable that the traditional designation clauses, referring to third country carriers, be replaced by a european union designation clause, referring to union air carriers. this would introduce a further balancing element in bilateral agreements. finally, increasingly stringent safety provisions should be applied, especially in those situations where regulatory control over an air carrier is exercised by a member state other than that of designation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bilateral air service agreements between the eu and third countries contain clauses which have been shown to be contrary to eu law, since they do not guarantee equal treatment outside the eu for different air carriers, which is why a specific agreement is needed to protect passengers and airlines. i voted in favour of the agreement precisely to ensure that all european airlines can use vietnamese air routes on an equal footing, without running the risk of any ban. the implementation of the agreement also aims to improve flight and passenger safety. if, for various reasons, we cannot have the same standards as we have within the union, it is appropriate that certain fixed points and rules should be established.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am satisfied with the final text voted today, as it allows all eu carriers access to routes between the european union and vietnam, avoiding discrimination between the different air carriers. in addition, safety and competition provisions are guaranteed, which are of great importance for improving air services on this route, to the benefit of operators as well as passengers. the steady economic growth of this country, which thanks to the resilience of its business fabric has been able to cope with the international crisis better than many others, makes it a privileged partner for the eu, and today's vote can only support this important line of development.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the 20 years of trade negotiations between the european union and the gulf cooperation council (gcc) countries, the context has changed profoundly and these relations must be able to reach a turning point. the conclusion of a free trade agreement remains a political and commercial priority. the geopolitical landscape of the gcc is characterised by the emergence of a number of security challenges with global and regional implications, which require the initiation of a process of liberalisation and diversification of the basic economic structure of these countries. they should be able to continue along the path of cooperation and multilateralism. the european union therefore has the task of developing a new strategic partnership capable of supporting the ongoing process of regional integration. it is also desirable that the new eu external action service establish new diplomatic missions in these countries. it is therefore advisable that parliament should encourage a more ambitious union policy towards the gcc: we should be able to intensify relations in areas of cooperation, in the field of scientific and technological research, continuing to discuss also issues such as the protection of religious minorities, the right to work and freedom of opinion.
in writing. - the report by mr baudis on the european union's relations with the gulf cooperation council (gcc) refers to the negotiations for free trade between the eu and the countries of the persian gulf. i believe that an agreement that facilitates trade and thus consolidates all the socio-political relations that reintegrate the region into the global context in which it is situated is essential both for the future balance of the region after the wars of recent years and the recent events, and from the commercial point of view. that is why i voted in favour of the report and also wished for a strengthening of relations which would be mutually beneficial also in view of a new global governance.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the free trade agreement between the eu and the gulf cooperation council has been under discussion for some 20 years. in this period, the financial and geopolitical context of the gcc has changed dramatically: security challenges have emerged (iraq, iran, yemen, islamic terrorism, piracy) and new commercial players have emerged in the area. at the same time, the gcc states have become the economic engine of the entire middle east-north africa region and are now the leading investors in the countries of the southern mediterranean area of the eu. the two regions also share common interests in security, counter-terrorism, regional crisis management and global economic governance. the european parliament is therefore called upon today to formulate a more ambitious policy of cooperation with the gcc countries: the eu has comparative advantages to be claimed against new actors operating in the gulf, especially in education, scientific research, energy and technology, and cannot afford to miss the opportunities offered by this particular historical moment in which global economic governance is being defined and regional balances are being reconstituted.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the free trade agreement between the eu and the gulf region is a priority for the interests of both parties and must underline the importance of their mutual recognition. the european union's presence in the region strengthens the exchange policy, contributing to the development of targeted and effective eu information in the gulf states. the conclusion of the agreement in question will help to enhance the union's visibility by opening new european diplomatic missions in the gulf states, which will help to promote political dialogue and the effectiveness of european action. this is also true in view of the eu's energy needs, which are still largely covered by fossil fuels, although in the future oil demand will be driven by an increasingly renewable-oriented climate policy. social and political developments in most gcc member states in recent years encourage the promotion of human rights and the fight against all discrimination, including discrimination based on gender, sexual orientation or religion. it is therefore necessary to consolidate a reliable partnership between the eu and the gcc, which favours the opening of commodity markets and the abolition of non-tariff barriers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of appointing peter praet as a member of the executive board of the ecb, as he has proved to be a very good candidate. during the hearing of candidates held within the econ committee, dr praet proved to be by far the most experienced and prepared candidate. the european central bank has proved itself over the years to be a key institution that has managed the crisis and prevented even greater damage. the bank's independent and unconnected role since the collapse of lehman brothers has ensured that the very harsh consequences of the crisis have not been devastating. the ecb is and remains a bulwark in defence of monetary union and the euro. it is therefore essential that the members of the executive board be of high quality and experience.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have followed closely the whole process leading to the creation of the european banking authority. on that basis, i voted in favour of appointing adam farkas as executive director. the banking authority must be able to start performing the tasks which this parliament entrusted to it months ago. i very much hope that the authority will be provided with the necessary human and financial resources to ensure that the surveillance is carried out in a serious and accurate manner. the new executive director has convinced me and my colleagues of his competence and professionalism during the econ hearing, and today's vote is a testament to that. another positive note, to the benefit of the process of european integration, is that the new executive director comes from a country that has recently joined the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour today we are adding another important piece to the european supervisory structure which this parliament has considered so important to support since the beginning of the current legislature. the new executive director demonstrated his competence and knowledge of the sector and the problems he will be facing during the hearing in the committee on economic affairs last week. and i don't think the fact that the number one and number two at eiopa held the same job in the previous body is going to be a problem. i am confident that the new powers conferred on eiopa will ensure that the respective managers will be able to perform their task in an optimal way.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of appointing verena ross as executive director for a number of reasons. the recent legislation we have passed or will be required to pass gives a wide range of supervisory, analytical and evaluation powers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. it is therefore important that esma should be able to operate as soon as possible so that it can start to fulfil the mandate which this parliament gave it last year. finally, i welcome the fact that one of the most important posts has been filled by a woman, not just because of her gender, but because she is a candidate with an excellent cv. i hope that this, like the other two authorities, will be put in a position, in terms of budget, structures and human capital, to be able to work at its best.
in writing. − to tackle the current economic and financial crisis, it is essential to promote inclusive and sustainable european growth, aligning the community budget with the union's main objectives. this report sets out some guidelines which will help to: promoting employment; improving public spending on innovation, research and development; achieving climate change and energy objectives; improving education standards and promoting social inclusion. the european semester, as a new mechanism for strengthening european economic governance, should provide an opportunity to determine how best to achieve these objectives. it is essential to ensure a certain coherence between the achievement of these outcomes and the resources allocated to them at european and national level, thus improving synergies between european and national public investment. the european budget is a real added value, because of its catalytic capacity to stimulate investment, growth and employment. the appropriations already provided for must be maintained at an appropriate and flexible level of expenditure; on the contrary, a reduction in them would mean the failure of the europe 2020 strategy. we call on the commission to draw up ambitious proposals for the provision of new own resources, based on a comprehensive impact assessment, to strengthen competitiveness and economic growth.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the balzani report on the guidelines for the 2012 budget. this budget, like the 2013 budget, will be consolidation budgets, designed to reflect member states' expenditure containment and to serve as a reference point for the amounts to be fixed under the next financial framework. the contribution of the epp in the 2012 budget guidelines was based on the concept of 'responsibility', which means 'pursuing the objectives of economy, efficiency and effectiveness with the minimum of available resources'. strategy 2020 is geared towards important priorities, which were not initially contained in the balzani report, such as research, innovation, development and growth, but which are strongly emphasised by our political group in addition to achieving the employment targets initially envisaged. the union's priorities in the budget require adequate funding, it is also important to ensure flexibility between expenditure headings to better compensate for the difficulties linked to the crisis and to propose a budgetary framework that includes own resources.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, as every year, we will be called upon to adopt the budget of the european union in concert with the other institutions. in view of this, i voted in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the 2012 budget because i agree with the main guidelines defined, namely: to encourage financing to promote growth and overcome the economic crisis in line with strategy 2020, to make the european semester a more appropriate instrument for coordinating economic policies, to leave no margin for manoeuvre in the different headings but to use only mechanisms for the flexibility of the funds available, and to establish a serious and rigorous management of the resources available for the allocation of funds.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report sets out the general guidelines of the european parliament for the 2012 budget and i believe that it promotes sustainable growth by helping to overcome the economic crisis. its redistributive approach also adds value to the public expenditure of the member states. the commission's financial programming will bring the commitment appropriations to eur 147.88 billion. in this respect, my country is in favour of strict management of resources, in a context of spending restraint, especially in the area of administrative costs, in line with the policy of rigor implemented in its national budget. i hope that the redistribution of available resources to optimise their allocation will now be carried out to the end, so as to counteract the effects of the international crisis we are all experiencing in our daily lives.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution voted today in parliament on the introduction of a single application procedure for the issuing of a permit permit enabling third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of the union represents a further step towards the harmonization of the national legislation of the member states. the establishment of legal immigration measures that are uniform across the union, by defining common application procedures for those seeking admission to the territory of a member state for employment purposes, will enable the eu to respond to the labour needs of the internal labour market by providing, through the granting of equal rights, a tool to combat exploitation and discrimination. i think, however, that it is necessary to allow the states, under certain conditions, to set limits on the capacity to take in nationals from non-eu countries and offer them employment in their territory. the proposal has the obvious aim of combating irregular immigration and illegal work, but it can and should also be seen as a useful contribution to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, also allowing for easier border controls.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, which is returning to the house for the second time, because i believe that it responds well to the considerable demographic challenges facing the european union in the coming years by establishing a single application procedure for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state for employment purposes and by offering them a secure legal status. economic immigration is a reality that needs to be organised, but it is also a necessity in view of the democratic and economic challenges that the european union will face in the near future. immigration policy must therefore be conceived as a means of adjusting our labour needs, thus contributing to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. from a technical point of view, the exclusion of seasonal workers and workers posted within their undertaking is justified by the presentation by the commission of proposals for directives specific to these categories of workers. as regards the exclusion of asylum seekers and persons enjoying international protection, it is important to stress that the existing instruments in these areas provide greater protection than the present proposal for a directive.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my vote against the report on the single residence permit for thirdcountry nationals because today in the chamber some amendments were voted on which exclude the requirement of employment as necessary to be able to access equivalent social benefits and services. i think that this is a dangerous lowering of the minimum and indispensable standards for allowing a third country national, who obviously has a legal right of residence in the european union, to have access to the same working and social conditions as a community citizen. the european union exists also to ensure that the citizens of the member states enjoy, in some way, greater rights and guarantees which this report partially reduces.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs mathieu's proposal for a directive on a single procedure for applying for residence and work permits for thirdcountry nationals because i believe it is important that europe should have community rules on the entry of non-community workers, both economic and social. labour immigration can increase the competitiveness and vitality of the economy and make europe better able to face the demographic challenge of the future. the proposal for a directive calls on member states to adopt flexible immigration policies in order to support the union's long-term development, and will simplify the often complex administrative practices of welcoming migrants for employment purposes, while also offering a tool to combat exploitation and discrimination against certain categories of workers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme adopted by the european council on 10 and 11 december 2009 calls on the member states to adopt flexible immigration policies in order to support the development and economic performance of the union. the aim of this proposal for a directive is to contribute to the implementation of the programme. in particular, a single application procedure is introduced for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state for the purpose of employment, by: (i) simplify the often complex administrative practices of the reception of migrants; (ii) to define a means of combating exploitation and discrimination against workers; (iii) to ensure that the labour markets of the member states are able to meet current and future labour requirements. the directive applies to all citizens admitted to the territory for work purposes and to those who were initially admitted for other reasons and who subsequently obtained a work permit in accordance with the provisions of national or union law. the proposal for a directive thus contributes to fostering a common approach to economic immigration for the 27 member states. i therefore reiterate my vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is a step forward towards the adoption of a single application procedure for thirdcountry nationals wishing to enter european territory and work. europe is aiming to simplify the administrative procedure and to issue both residence and work permits in the form of a single document. i would like to stress that today's vote is not about attracting new workers to our territory indiscriminately, nor is it about countering illegal immigration. any non-community worker who wants to settle in europe will always have to obtain a residence permit first. the proposal adopted today also ensures full respect for the principle of subsidiarity, setting minimum requirements in terms of rights and obligations but leaving member states flexibility and freedom as regards the introduction of the procedure into national legislation and its practical application. the european union cannot limit the power of the member states to organise social security schemes and each state must be able to set its own rules in this area.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for a directive on consumer rights combines four previous directives into a single legislative instrument. it is the result of the review of the consumer acquis launched in 2004 with the aim of simplifying and complementing the existing regulatory framework for consumer protection. the current regulatory framework causes significant compliance costs for european businesses wishing to operate cross-border and having to comply with fragmented legislation. i believe that the fragmentation of legal rules is a deterrent both for businesses from buying or selling across borders and for consumers. the report under discussion seeks to strike the necessary balance between a high level of consumer protection and the competitiveness of firms on the market, while ensuring respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposals which are converging towards a type of targeted harmonisation, i.e. harmonisation limited to specific aspects of certain contracts such as, in particular, information requirements, the right of withdrawal with distance and off-premises contracts, while managing to maintain a high level of protection for european consumers.
in writing. - i congratulate mr schwab on the work he has done so far. i voted in favour of the schwab report because it has the merit of protecting consumers in crossborder purchases. the text voted today is intended to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the 27 member states. at the same time, it aims to protect and support businesses, which, regardless of their size, can supply their goods and services to european consumers without encountering unnecessary legal obstacles. the aim of bringing together four directives on this subject is therefore to bring the existing rules more closely into line, avoiding the legal fragmentation which is so often an obstacle for both consumers and businesses. in this sense, this document can contribute to a better functioning of the internal market by increasing consumer confidence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the objective is very ambitious: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. about a year ago, professor monti said in his report to president barroso: '... the legislator should reach agreement as soon as possible on the draft consumer rights directive, in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection in an integrated retail market.' i agree with professor monti. the absence of common rules in the various member states has led to a fragmentation of the regulatory framework which is harmful both to consumers and to businesses and which in fact prevents the completion of the common market. at a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing worldwide, europe certainly cannot afford to have its businesses left behind and its consumers not adequately protected. it is therefore urgent to identify the right common denominator as soon as possible, so that the rules can be harmonised at european level. we must all make an effort to reach an agreement with the council as soon as possible, perhaps at first reading.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by reducing barriers to crossborder trade, but it raises problems for both consumers and businesses. while it is appropriate to support all efforts to make the internal market more effective and to encourage cross-border trade, article 38 of the charter of fundamental rights requires that european policies ensure a high level of consumer protection. it is therefore necessary to aim at increasing the current minimum level of harmonisation by applying the best available national practices. a european system of liability for non-compliance should be developed to improve consumer protection and consumer confidence in markets. in line with the eu 2020 strategy, a high level of protection ensures quality products while promoting the performance of the internal market. as regards consumer rights, the current minimum rules give member states the possibility of adapting european legislation to national principles: we believe that further progress in this direction is necessary. unfortunately, however, we note that the proposal for a directive does not take account of new products due to the changes in development and innovation that are taking place, as is the case with digital products.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr andreas schwab on consumer rights because i believe that the existing regulatory framework for consumer protection should be simplified and supplemented. it is essential that consumers in the 27 member states can rely on a high level of protection and that businesses, regardless of their size, can provide their goods and services to consumers in the 27 member states without having to face unnecessary legal obstacles. parliament's intervention is necessary both to strengthen consumer confidence and to encourage and support businesses to engage in cross-border trade. the diversification of consumer rights rules at european level is also a serious deterrent for businesses in their activity of buying and selling goods and services across borders. in particular, electronic commerce is a sector where consumers cannot benefit from the internal market and their rights as consumers, this is due to the fact that companies active in a particular sector are reluctant to comply with different rules when entering a new market and therefore risk being sued in another member state.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr schwab's report because i believe that it strikes the right balance between protecting consumers, on the one hand, who must be protected against fraud and unorthodox behaviour by businesses and intermediaries, and on the other, avoiding the introduction of rules that are too stringent for businesses, imposing obligations on them that they are sometimes unable to support, given the size of their business and turnover. the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution caused by the use of chemicals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal on consumer rights, presented on 8 october 2008, aims to combine the four previous directives into a single legislative instrument on the basis of the principle of 'complete harmonisation'. the fragmentation of rules is seen as a deterrent for both consumers and businesses buying or selling across borders. however, in the light of the state of the consumer acquis, the approach of full harmonisation envisaged in this proposal is not currently feasible. therefore, its scope should be adjusted by means of a structural change. in line with the parliament's resolution and as stated in the commission's internal market and consumer protection working document of 2009, a new approach based on targeted full harmonisation, i.e. harmonisation limited to specific aspects of certain contracts while maintaining a high level of consumer protection, is therefore preferable. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of ensuring that consumer rights are protected more and more.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's task is to protect the interests of european citizens and consumers, and today this parliament is finally recognising the right protection of these rights. until now, consumers have been too often exposed to the risk of being deceived and cheated by the market, mainly because they were not aware of their rights. with the adoption of this resolution, europe is demanding clear and precise information for all consumers, enabling them to make informed and targeted choices. the commission will be able to take action to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. all contractual clauses deemed abusive will be put on a full blacklist and will not be used in any type of contract. europe has historically been based on the european single market. the establishment of common paths is now more than ever a priority for our institutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i share the need to extend the mandate of the european network and information security agency. this body, set up by the european union in 2004 with a five-year mandate, now needs a further extension to make sure that it can take all the necessary steps to ensure that it is up to date with the real needs and risks of protection. the increasing use of computer tools, in fact, facilitates the work of many, but often also poses a danger, especially for the youngest. clear rules are therefore needed to protect users. however, amending the regulation requires more time, which is why the mandate of the agency should be extended.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only support the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 460/2004 establishing the european network and information security agency (enisa) and its duration. i voted in favour of this proposal because i am convinced of the important work it has done in the field of communications security, as well as for the implementation of the powers, provided for in the amendment, attributed to it in the fight against cybercrime. in my view, extending the duration of the directive will avoid the risk of a dangerous regulatory vacuum. i am aware that the work carried out by enisa is of considerable community interest, and i therefore hope that the resources allocated to it will be increased.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, information and communication technologies (icts) have become an integral part of the european union's economy and society. today, as a result of the continuous evolution of mass media and information systems, icts are increasingly exposed to threats that cannot be effectively addressed at national level alone. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal for a radical reform of the european network security agency (enisa) and the extension of its mandate for a further 18 months, which will allow us to overcome the risk of a dangerous regulatory vacuum. there is no doubt that the multiplication of safety requirements imposes costs on businesses operating at union level, causing great fragmentation and lack of competitiveness in the european internal market. on the other hand, while the reliance on networks and information systems is increasing, the capacity to react to accidents still seems insufficient. enisa therefore needs to continue its efforts by adopting strategic tools to actively identify risks and vulnerabilities related to network and information security, thus being able to grasp and interpret the challenges we will have to face in the near future.
in writing. − europe needs a system for protecting computer networks and information, and this protection is provided by enisa, the european agency for network and information security. the text of mr chichester is nothing but a compromise regulation between the european institutions which seeks to extend the mandate of the agency by increasing its staff, increasing its resources and giving greater emphasis to the fight against cybercrime in order to ensure better protection of information systems. i voted in favour of the regulation precisely because i believe it is important to ensure security in this area, given that we are in the digital age.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing amount of confidential information circulating daily on computer networks around the world is a potential threat if it is breached. i therefore believe that the text voted on today meets the security requirements of sensitive information that we need. the european agency for information security (enisa) will have to be given a stronger role in the fight against cybercrime, which will have to go hand in hand with administrative simplification of internal procedures. i would like to conclude by recalling that this is also the position of my country, which wants to see more resources allocated to the agency itself.
in writing. the composure and decorum of japan's population is the only consolation for an apocalyptic vision that the media has delivered to the whole world. an endless tragedy in which the finiteness of man finds its most surprisingly timely dimension in the face of the unstoppability of nature. the world solidarity and the most generous aid in concrete form are a just and proper response by the world communities. as well as for each of us, the heroic example of those volunteers - mostly retired firefighters - who offer their own lives to help extinguish the fires of the fukushima reactors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have said that i strongly supported the resolution on japan.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's resolution on support for japan was voted in parliament with the agreement of all the political groups, to express our closeness to japan, the protagonist of the tragic events of 11 march 2011. i supported the resolution because, despite the financial and economic crisis and the instability in the countries of north africa, the european institutions must not and cannot fail to support japan in terms of humanitarian and economic assistance. what has happened has had and will continue to have inevitable economic and financial consequences, with inevitable repercussions on the european and world markets. the eu-japan meeting in brussels in may could be the start of the cooperation and support that the eu must provide, by acting as a key partner in the reconstruction process, assisting japan both through technical assistance in the energy sector and through the strengthening of trade relations aimed at the rapid recovery of this great world economic power. i also think it appropriate, with regard to the subject of nuclear safety, to have the european energy ministers make it a priority to make european installations safe, emphasizing the importance of greater european coordination in the modernisation of nuclear installations.
in writing. - the catastrophe which struck japan with an earthquake and tsunami of unexpected proportions has left us all with a sense of profound sorrow for the immense loss of human life and the enormous material damage caused. we, as members of the european parliament, therefore express our sincere solidarity with the japanese people and government. our thoughts, and those of all europeans, are with the thousands of people who will now have to rebuild their lives and their communities. we are also struck by the rapid and decisive action of the local authorities and the mobilization, courage and exemplary determination of the japanese people. while the eu has already set up its civil protection coordination mechanism, sending experts from europe to coordinate emergency aid, we also call on the member states to give priority to the disaster regions with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support. recalling the strong friendship and close political and economic ties between the eu and japan, we are determined to support this country as it struggles to overcome the challenges it faces, including the threat of a full-scale nuclear catastrophe.
in writing. the disastrous earthquake which struck japan on 11 march cannot go unnoticed by the world. it must be a trigger for political and socio-economic reflection in the face of the disastrous consequences of the tsunami. i would like to express my deepest sympathy, as do all my colleagues, in approving this resolution, to the japanese people, who are responding to the disaster in the best way possible, with a great sense of civility. i hope and ask the european union to take action to provide humanitarian aid through its civil protection and to propose appropriate projects to solve the problem of nuclear contamination through a joint project with the japanese authorities that will try, as far as possible, to return the situation to normal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today i wanted to express my solidarity with the japanese people and their government following the devastating earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident. i have also been able to see that the commission has been working very hard to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the people of japan. the exemplary courage and determination shown by the japanese people and authorities in dealing with the situation must be an example to all, and an additional reason for the eu not to abandon this country at the most delicate stage of its complete reconstruction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this postponement is appropriate. it is four or five weeks, simply to go into a subject which, as we have just heard, involves the expenditure of millions of euros by the european taxpayers. so i ask for a vote in support of the motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given the subject, i think there is enough time to table amendments, so i do not think that the proposal should be accepted.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the world of today, if there is a trade that is difficult to control, it is the arms trade. there are various ways to make this control difficult. one is to trade in apparently harmless or technical weapons which can easily become weapons, and that is why we are dealing with dual use in this regulation. another difficulty is the cacophony of rules which makes a control system ineffective. when we started working on this dossier, the commission asked us to amend a regulation from 2000. in the meantime, this has been repealed and, on the basis of the same obsolete proposal, we had to amend the most recent one from 2009. we have just entered the trilogue and there is already a new legislative proposal from the commission, again to amend the same regulation. the first requirement is therefore to establish clear, simple and transparent rules for european exporters by having a consolidated text. four points on the liberal group's position. as far as low-value shipments are concerned, we in the alde group, together with the council, are very sceptical of this system. parliament has already limited the maximum value from eur 5 000 to eur 3 000 and imposed various other criteria. the list of countries of destination is very limited. this is something that small and mediumsized businesses legitimately want, but our main message is that we want security above all, as well as trade, and we will have to return to this in the trilogue. we are in favour of the ex ante notification policy and an obligation to register member states. finally, we call for maximum transparency, so that the regulation provides for a mechanism to provide interested parties, such as human rights organisations or peace monitoring and trade unions, with the various stages that have shaped the decision-making process, including through a report to the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, in these times of austerity the commission is rationalising as well. mr simpson, as rapporteur you said that this is a technical report and it is indeed, but nevertheless it is an important one. the purpose of the proposal from the commission was to update and optimise the existing legal framework for european statistics on tourism. both producers and users of tourism statistics have requested this adjustment. so the ultimate aim is to provide monthly and annual european statistics on tourism supply and demand using a common framework. the proposal is very well balanced in terms of data needs and the burden put on respondents and administrators. to achieve this, permission has been included to collect some parts of the data on an optional basis or every third year, to defer the entry into force of certain provisions to a later stage and to exclude the smallest enterprises. following an informal trilogue held on 12 january 2011 and further discussions, as you mentioned, rapporteur, a compromise text was agreed between parliament and the council. in particular, the council agreed to an additional demand from parliament of having the variable concerning the accessibility of tourist accommodation for persons with reduced mobility included in the regulation. all amendments in the report and the compromise text are acceptable to the commission. therefore i would like to thank you, mr simpson, and the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the committee on transport and tourism for your constructive work on the proposal. following fruitful cooperation between all three institutions, i believe that we have now reached our objective, which is the establishment of a common framework for the systematic development, production and dissemination of european statistics on tourism.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur for his commitment and for his ability to summarize the political situation. the european people's party group will strongly support the compromise reached with the council. this regulation replaces the text in force since 1995, which no longer reflects the current reality in relation to some key aspects, such as new needs and habits of users, the need for more timely data and an improvement in the comparability and completeness of the statistical framework. the final text incorporates all the political priorities supported by the epp during the negotiations, in particular a better definition of the parts of the regulations that can be amended by delegated acts, the introduction of the definition of 'day visits', which is essential to include in the data collection also all those who do not stay overnight, thus also including the phenomenon of conference tourism, a better definition of the data to be collected, including the expenditure of tourists during the journey for food and drinks in bars and restaurants, which represents a substantial part of our tourism industry, accepted albeit only on a voluntary basis by the council, and data on accessibility for people with reduced mobility. the rapporteur has already pointed out that this was a key point for the parliament's delegation. in conclusion, this regulation is an important part of the new european tourism strategy on which all the european institutions are debating. it will provide an updated legal framework to keep pace with market developments, more clarity and consistency in the collection of tourism data, and also ensure more effective monitoring of the sector to better understand consumer needs. i would like to thank mr simpson, the commission for the initiative and the council for the excellent mediation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the chairman of the committee, mr brian simpson, on his work in the committee and on the dossier, and above all on the fact that he has made it possible to conclude the report as we would like it to be, and thus to anticipate the vote in favour by the alde group and the adoption at first reading, and thus the successful conclusion of the regulation. the aim of the regulation is to establish a common framework for the collection of statistics on tourism, and more specifically for all the stages of the process, from collection to processing, processing and transmission, which will enable us to gain an optimal understanding of the economic world that is activated and revolves around tourism. mr president, it must be said clearly that, compared with the 1995 directive which is our forerunner, there is a considerable development in tourism and, above all, there is the great prospect that the tourism economic system will bring to the entire european economy in the near future. i have been working on the dossier as a shadow for the alde group and, as i said before, i am anticipating the vote in favour. i think that the simpson report is particularly appreciated for the concept of satellite accounts, that is, the adoption of pilot projects which will make it possible to assess the economic impact on individual sectors of the economy, the aspects of the day-to-day visits, the evaluation report to be drawn up every five years, and the possibility, indeed the need, for a five-yearly report assessing the effects of statistics. i would conclude by saying that this is part of the new powers which we have received from the treaty of lisbon and i believe that this time we are beginning to take parliament's powers into account and we will do the same with the next dossier under preparation which will be before the house as soon as possible.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is an important economic activity in the union, with a high potential in terms of contributing to job creation and economic growth. with some 1.8 million smes, the estimated contribution of the european tourism industry to eu gdp is over 5%. the system of tourism statistics is currently regulated by directive 95/57/ec on the collection of statistical data in this field. i believe that statistics are not only useful for monitoring specific tourism policies, but can also be useful in the wider context of regional policy and sustainable development. in recent decades, the sector has faced major challenges such as increased global competition, demographic trends, environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist movements and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies by customers. in recognising the key role of statistics in the development of more effective tourism policies at european, national, regional and local level, i believe that the overall objective should be to strengthen the eu tourism sector through coordinated action at union level integrating the initiatives of individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the fight against all forms of violence against women is one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency of the european union. i therefore call for long-term measures in the political, social and legal fields to be taken to eliminate gender-based violence and achieve true equality between the sexes. i have been a promoter, together with other colleagues in this parliament, of the establishment of a 'european year against violence against women' to raise awareness among european citizens. i believe that the recognition by the european commission in the 2010-2015 action plan of fighting gender-based violence by all means is a significant step that must be translated into concrete action. we are still waiting for the strategic plan which the european commission has announced it will present this year. this plan should introduce a package of legislative and practical measures to ensure that victims of violence are adequately protected by national criminal justice systems. in europe, it is estimated that between 20 and 25 per cent of women have suffered violence at least once in their lives. in addition, it is estimated that half a million women living in europe have undergone female genital mutilation. these figures are unfortunately increasing, they are certainly alarming and worrying and they require timely action by the european institutions. violence against women has a devastating effect on the whole family. mothers lose their function of instilling security in their children and children become indirect victims of violence. violence against women is a very difficult phenomenon to monitor, as often the women who are victims are ashamed and afraid to report the violence to the authorities. this makes the work of the institutions more difficult but at the same time necessary. i would therefore say, as does mrs jiménez-becerril barrio, 'stop violence against women, stop it now!'
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs svensson. we know that violence against women and children is on the rise throughout europe. we therefore urge the commission to present a proposal, as it has already promised, for a comprehensive strategy on violence against women by 2011, which includes domestic violence and genital mutilation, but also some more subtle forms. i am thinking of the serious discrimination and harassment in the workplace against pregnant women or those who intend to marry with demands for their early resignation, as is the case in my country, and which is no longer a crime as it was in the past. i am also thinking of the actual incitement of violence perpetrated through the media and advertising. after the directive on trafficking in human beings and the one we are waiting for on victims of violence, announced by commissioner malmström, i believe that the lisbon treaty provides the basis for further harmonisation of the rules in the member states' recognition of the importance of the crime of violence against women and children as specific forms of violence, also by defining essential standards for counselling, legal assistance and protection services for women and children, also in collaboration with ngos, as well as constant and comparable statistics with impact analyses of the forms of prevention and response by member states on the reduction of violence. i think that there is a common will in parliament - i too have signed the written declaration - to define a year of reflection for the whole of europe on the subject of violence, and i think that parliament can give a very strong and very authoritative voice in this.
in writing. my commitment to the protection of the most vulnerable and of women who are offended by violence requires me to vote in favour of legislation to guarantee the rights of victims of violence. women, like children, are in some contexts particularly vulnerable members of our society. i therefore believe that it is important to ensure greater protection for women who report that they have been subjected to violence. i am therefore in favour of free legal aid for women who are victims of violence. i know that there is a risk of inequality when men wrongly accused of violence have to pay the legal costs while the accusers benefit from free legal aid, and i have thought this through carefully. however, i believe that the numbers of cases of violence, including domestic violence, require that we stand up for those who are most affected by the lack of support: women victims of violence are statistically a highly predominant proportion compared to the few malefactors who can take advantage of the system to infer on innocent men. it is difficult for abused women to report abuse, and free legal aid would encourage victims and help reduce the number of cases that go unpunished.
the agenda includes, for joint debate,the commission statement on the eu's response to migratory flows in northern africa and the southern mediterranean, in particular to lampedusa, andthe report by mr fiorello provera, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on migratory flows caused by instability: the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including a common defence policy, and to the development of a common defence policy.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this tragically timely own-initiative report was produced over a year ago in order to give a pragmatic and balanced assessment of the phenomenon of immigration and its structural causes, regardless of political or ideological prejudices. we wanted to explore the role of foreign policy and its possibilities for intervening in the root causes of immigration, beyond the humanitarian or emergency aspects. wars, ethnic tensions, persistent climate change, violation of human rights, lack of civil and economic freedoms, endemic corruption, absence of institutional representatives of the needs of citizens, such as trade unions, associations, political parties: the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy, and it is in this context that the european union is making its contribution to the development of the world economy. no development cooperation policy can be fully effective without addressing the causes of instability in the countries of origin of migrants. this implies regional cooperation with both the countries of origin and transit, including through bilateral agreements. the millennium development goals are already very ambitious, but they will certainly not be achieved without political stability and without effective mechanisms to prevent conflict and maintain peace. the global scope of this policy and its all-inclusive approach require clear ideas and substantial financial resources, which are hard to come by at this time of crisis. the union's initiatives should therefore be coordinated with those of other major powers, such as the united states, in order to avoid overlapping of interventions in the same areas or dispersion of financial resources, as has often happened in the past. a global phenomenon must be met with a global policy. we must help the countries of origin of immigrants to move towards democracy and good governance by making available our values and our experience. the european neighbourhood policy should offer an economic agenda capable of raising employment levels and trade agreements capable of generating real economic development consistent with market laws. commissioner füle and high representative ashton, using the phrase 'more for more', recalled the concept of conditionality in aid, which is intended to reward countries which are most active in democratic reform and respect for human rights. this is consistent with our european values, effective for development and - excuse me - morally just towards the european taxpayer. in conclusion, i would like to stress that a european policy for managing large migratory flows must be matched by the acceptance of the concept of burden sharing, in line with the duty of solidarity of the states under article 80 of the treaty, because no country can cope with an emergency of such enormous dimensions on its own. finally, i thank commissioner malmström for his support of some or many of the points in this report and i hope that europe can work concretely together with italy to deal with a phenomenon which is of international dimension and which affects us all.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you, madam commissioner, above all for your commitment to the preparation of this package of measures, which i believe is intended to send a political signal, to make it clear that the problem is not malta's, that the problem is not italy's, that the problem is not spain's, but that the problem is european. i think that this is the way to read your calls for solidarity between member states and for a neighbourhood policy, your desire to promote adequate funds for humanitarian emergencies, for assistance, for repatriation and for training, to take action on the issue of asylum seekers, to make a programme that overcomes the impasse, your sacrosanct reference to directive 55 and your desire to strengthen operation hermes. all this is a sign of a european will to question the apathy and inconsistency of many months. at the same time, let me represent to you the heart of our concern. we are not essentially concerned about the 20,000 who have arrived on lampedusa. we are concerned about the political fact that this represents. for example, what happened in 1989, with the implosion of the eastern system and the fall of communism, certainly weighed heavily on germany and austria, for example, but then there was a european solidarity that tried to respond in political terms to that challenge and that offered a road map that ended with the integration of many countries and many peoples who are today in this house. we're not asking for much. there are no conditions for the integration of the mediterranean, but there are conditions for a neighbourhood policy worthy of the name, for a euro-mediterranean strategy worthy of the name. that is what we are asking of europe! i think what you said goes in that direction. i would urge, for example, on directive 55, that in addition to recalling it as you have done, the commission should come up with a real proposal to be taken to the council, which should be voted by the council by a qualified majority, and which would make it inevitable for european countries to understand that the problem of immigrants is a european problem and to understand that the problem of the protection of immigrants is a european problem from which we can no longer escape.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, lampedusa has been invaded by tens of thousands of north africans whom the island could never, ever, ever take in. italy has been targeted by hundreds of illegal boat people for weeks. if we do not act together, if the eu does not act, the wave of people fleeing will continue. illegal immigrants who have arrived in the last few months must be sent home, there is no alternative. but the italian government, beyond a few words of solidarity, was left alone to handle this biblical exodus of unpredictable proportions. where is europe? until now, brussels has been a guilty fugitive, a disgraceful behaviour which my fellow citizens can no longer tolerate. europe has left italy alone to face an unprecedented emergency. instead, europe must not only help italy in returning illegal immigrants, but also support the italian government's efforts to prevent the departure of thousands and thousands of people, especially from tunisia. the same applies to the libyan refugees, for whom europe must support italy in identifying and managing the logistics, but above all it must ensure that refugees are accommodated in all the member states. the reception of those fleeing war cannot be a burden for italy alone. it's time to stop talking. the european union, if it exists, is striking a blow. we cannot tolerate italy being filled with illegal immigrants while france rejects them with shameful methods. the illegal immigrants must be sent home, and all member states must commit themselves to accepting libyan refugees now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the emergency situation, european asylum and immigration policy is being taught a serious lesson. what is clear once again is that the eu does not have a legislative and operational framework to deal with extraordinary but not unforeseeable events, such as those which have occurred in recent months in north africa. lampedusa and southern italy are paying for these mistakes, but above all the refugees, who are being treated in an inhuman way. even with article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the principle of equal distribution of solidarity, each country is in fact doing its own thing and france's attitude to the border with italy is unacceptable in the current european framework. i would ask the commission to consider asking the french government for explanations. for years, the eu has concluded agreements with third countries run by dictatorial regimes, financing their activities and putting commercial interests ahead of democratic needs. europe has been silent about the libyan raids, and will it be silent about the untenable situation in the tent cities? we now all agree that no deal with gaddafi is acceptable. yet a few months ago i heard no objections to the italy-libya treaty, which dealt with the immigration problem in an inhumane way. today berlusconi tried to use the same methods with tunisia, offering money. perhaps the new tunisian government has learned a lesson. yet, willingly or unwillingly, it is the responsibility of the eu and the 27 member states to intervene, always bearing in mind the overriding priority of international solidarity and the protection of human rights. i therefore hope that the european commission will propose as soon as possible the opening of the emergency procedure provided for in directive 55/2001 on temporary protection and that this proposal will be adopted by the council in a short time, because otherwise it would be useless. i also ask that a parliamentary delegation, not a delegation of political groups, be sent to lampedusa to verify both the humanitarian conditions of the immigrants and the verification of the principle of non-refoulement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank commissioner malmström for the attention he is giving week after week to this momentous emergency, because that is what it is. there have been remarks, not just in this house, that try to reduce and minimize what our government, our country and our people have had to face. it was, and still is, a humanitarian emergency of an extraordinary nature. i believe that our government and especially our people have made an extraordinary impression on international public opinion. the people of lampedusa have behaved in an extraordinary way, first by welcoming the immigrants, even by giving them what they needed, and then at a certain point saying 'we can't take it anymore', because alongside the human rights we talk about every day in this house, there are also the rights of peoples, including the right to maintain their identity, their activities and, of course, not to be invaded. there's also an immigration of illegal immigrants, of criminals who have just been released from prison. this is a matter of concern to the countries that are to receive them. and then, when immigration takes on the characteristics - i repeat - of invasion, we have to ask ourselves the related problems. we stand with our people, without ifs and buts. the european union must take note of this, commissioner. alongside human rights are our rights, the rights of indigenous peoples. for this reason, we fully support the efforts which the italian government is making in tunisia even at this hour, because in view of the modest figures indicated by the commissioner, what the italian government is offering tunisia is a great deal. a lot is being done and we are confident of tangible results. but we must move from words to deeds and frontex is not doing what should be done to put an end to this filthy traffic, because this traffic is the shame of the mediterranean and the european union is also responsible for it. so yes to human trafficking and yes to a marshall plan for these countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have heard a number of measures and initiatives which are certainly encouraging and which are in line with what the italian delegation requested when we met mr barroso last week with the head of the delegation: the european union must be more solidary, more resourceful, more concrete and more incisive for lampedusa, malta and all those states which are exposed to exceptional migratory pressure and which can only be met by a european government. the commission's comforting statements are, of course, consistent with our view on the application of article 5 of directive 55. we hope that it can be examined by the council in a very reasonable time. a more coherent neighbourhood policy, based on results and on a priority criterion in favour of border regions which will be able to spend resources to ensure that the job and growth opportunities of their young people are realised in their own territories. a better and more adequate operational plan for frontex, which has also served in this exceptional phase, also through joint patrols. we believe that there is room for further action in the immigration funds because of an exceptional situation which is now well known to all of us. mrs malmström, we have not discussed compensatory measures. commissioner hahn is not with you, and it would probably have been useful if he were. a review of the structural funds, a policy which takes account of an exceptional situation, of a lack of attractiveness, of a penalty for the attractiveness of the sicilian region in terms of fisheries and tourism, which must be compensated in some way in lampedusa and sicily. one hundred and fifty thousand egyptians have returned to libya, but this migration problem does not end there. this requires very concrete action through a strong and determined european policy, and we trust that you and president barroso will be able to develop that strategy through a comprehensive migration plan. we cannot wait any longer and we hope that europe will have a plan on migration by the end of this month, in the interests of the solidarity we have so long awaited and which we would like to see finally come to fruition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask the honourable member who spoke a moment ago whether he really thinks it appropriate to describe people fleeing from a situation of great political discomfort - as has been pointed out by all the political groups - such as that in north africa, as 'scoundrels' and 'exploiters'. i find that very serious and i ask the presidency to point out what has been said and to indicate whether it is considered appropriate in such a delicate debate on the suffering of human beings who are obviously not considered to have the right to eat, since it has been said that 'they even ask for food and are thieves'. i find it very serious that this has been said in this chamber and i hope that the citizens of europe will be able to read this sentence which is so serious that it alone denounces the utter political inadequacy of those who have spoken it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you will have noticed that there is a lot of solidarity in this house, but that is not enough. to have and give strength to a european immigration policy, we must do together what others cannot do, namely, have the consent of governments. take his proposals and take them to the council. we will support you because you will have understood that, apart from some xenophobic accents, you are held in high esteem and great solidarity in this house. parliament will reaffirm this tomorrow by saying no to rejections, yes to the activation of directive 55 of 2001, yes to the activation of article 25 of the same directive. tomorrow in parliament we will do our part. but others must also do their part, governments must be much less selfish, and we must be promoters of the solidarity needed to implement a european policy. the commission's work is of course at the heart of this effort, because without governments europe will be weaker.
it is sad to see that the west sometimes finds great solidarity when it has to bomb, when it has to send its companies to the third world and when it has to take oil, but it is difficult to find it when it has to make policies of solidarity and immigration. the features of this evening's debate have these characteristics. i was in lampedusa last monday and saw 4,000-5,000 people on the ground, huddled together sleeping in the sun and rain, defecating where they ate and not changing their wet clothes - which some said were scratched, but they are falsely scratched - that they had during the crossing, in disastrous conditions. among them were 4,500 minors, boys aged 12 to 13, who shared that condition, a condition of discomfort shared by the inhabitants of lampedusa. tunisia is currently hosting 150,000 migrants from libya and showing solidarity. it is a poor country that shows solidarity, while rich europe cannot take in 5,000 migrants. europe must instead stand in solidarity with these wonderful young people who have started the 'jasmine revolution' in sidi bouzid that is changing north africa and the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the communication you have given is in line with what we wanted to hear. but i would not like to ideologise this debate, which is sometimes ideologised in a bipartisan way. i think when we talk about a humanitarian emergency, it's a very serious thing. the question i ask myself, and i ask my colleagues, is this: "can we talk about a humanitarian emergency and stop there, or should we ask two kinds of questions, one about the emergency, and then about the immediate issues, and another strategic one? " the problem of africa and the middle east is a problem which cannot be excluded from that of europe, and the question we must ask ourselves is whether there can be development without democracy. let us remember that the revolt in these countries of the middle east and the mediterranean was not an ideological revolt, but it was a revolt for bread, it was a revolt for democracy, to live. we cannot help asking ourselves some questions about this. it is all very well, madam commissioner, to tackle the problem of directive 55 of 2001 and all that frontex is doing, but europe must ask itself what it wants to do about the mediterranean and africa as a whole. ladies and gentlemen, many people have spoken about libya and other countries. my thoughts go to darfur, to some situations where genocide continues every day in africa. the only odd note i would like to add is this: it is not true that europe has plundered. of course, some european countries are also responsible, but in africa there are a number of interacting capitalisms which are not based, as ours is, on the social economy of labour, but which are based on the state economy, state capitalism, first of all china, which buys sovereign debts and exploits entire populations. we can't even go to the un to pick up presidents who are dictated by crime. i think we have to put aside ideological questions and think today of the immediate and then welcome these people, all of us together. tomorrow, however, we cannot but speak about europe's strategy for the whole of africa.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation in north africa is uncertain. we do not know what the immediate outcome of the civil war in libya will be, we do not know whether the new political arrangements in the maghreb countries and egypt will be favourable to democracy or whether they will create even worse conditions for democracy and relations with europe. as regards the arrival on european shores, and in particular on lampedusa, of an unstoppable crowd of refugees from the shores of africa, it is difficult, here too, to distinguish between those who are fleeing violence and fear of death, those who have, for example, escaped from prisons and those who are seeking a future that is in any case better than the famine in their own country. but there are certain things. first, human dignity must be respected in all men. secondly, europe has a vocation to welcome all refugees. thirdly, the frontiers of the individual states which are part of the european union are the frontiers of europe. fourthly, there is a duty of solidarity between all the european states which are part of the union, which the treaty of lisbon has confirmed, strengthened and made legally binding, also with regard to immigration policy and the management of migration flows in an area of freedom, security and justice. fifthly, the instruments to deal with emergencies such as the present one have already been built up, with directive 55 of 2001, frontex and eusa. the present situation is one in which the question of whether europe exists or not is being tested. commissioner, i very much appreciate your intervention, but i think we should move from words to deeds. i know you well and i know you will. we hope that your proposal will be followed. the important thing is that words are not enough, but we need deeds to make europe a reality. this is an opportunity to build europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation in the mediterranean basin and the current and expected migratory flows require the adoption of a medium and long-term strategy different from that which i heard announced by commissioner malmström. i believe that it is necessary to create in the african countries bordering the mediterranean such conditions for democratic life and development as to prevent the migratory phenomena we are witnessing. i therefore believe that an extraordinary plan - some have called it a marshall plan - is needed shortly to stimulate and implement a process of development in the countries of north africa. only in this way can we curb and prevent migration in the future. i would also like to stress the need for compensatory measures for the areas concerned. all the speakers have spoken about lampedusa, but i would like to invite you to reflect on what an immigration process like the one under way means for an island that lives off tourism and fishing. tour operators have been receiving no more bookings for months, only cancellations. europe must show its support by appropriate compensatory measures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i come here as a representative of the south of italy and as a proud europeanist, convinced that the member states must work together to build a strong and lasting union. the fact that we are unprepared to deal with an emergency only 70 miles from our shores reflects the weaknesses of our system at 27 and the need to develop a greater sense of responsibility and solidarity. an individualistic logic risks weakening europe and backsliding on the integration process which has been so laboriously built up over the last decades. every corner of this europe is europe. it is europe in lampedusa too, and this applies to all fields and all policies. it is absurd to see this emergency being dealt with by only two member states. we chose to join together to be stronger, and as in the best marriages, that union holds good for better and for worse.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner, i thank you for what you have said. we can only agree with you when you speak of solidarity between member states and when you want to stress how the commission will ask member states to assume their responsibilities towards asylum seekers. thank you for everything that has been missing until today, today you come to guarantee that it will happen. we want to give your speech a boost, to give you a boost, but we also want to give you a full mandate so that what has been missing from today can be achieved. unfortunately, not all european governments are behaving in this way. some consider italy's maritime frontiers to be italy's frontiers and not europe's, and they state clearly and forcefully that they do not want to share the responsibility that only italy and the south of italy are taking on. we therefore fully endorse your speech, but we do so in the conviction that, through the strong action of the commission in the council, the solidarity of the member states with italy will be real and concrete and that all 27 member states will take responsibility and take charge of this emergency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i very much appreciated your speech and the list of measures announced and i do not want to go into the legal and regulatory quarrel concerning the temporary protection of migrants and the application of article 80 of the treaty. as we speak, the sea-cartels continue to sail the mediterranean to the italian coast, often paying a death toll. lampedusa, despite the recent evacuations, remains in a state of absolute emergency and massive smoke is still being reported from the tent cities of manduria. italy continues to do its part in welcoming these desperate people, while other countries reward police stations according to the number of expulsions. our government is in tunisia to try to put a stop to this flow, but we cannot continue to do it alone. the european union is needed, and europe's help and political role is needed, in order to plan a new neighbourhood policy and a more efficient immigration strategy, starting from the failure of the dublin system and the realisation that lampedusa is not only italy's border but also europe's.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as the elected representative of the south of italy, i join the chorus of colleagues who have gone before me in calling for appropriate action to deal with the serious situation facing the citizens and migrants of lampedusa. the sanitary situation on the island has crossed all bounds of decency. i appeal to the italian government's sense of responsibility to ensure that it takes all the initiatives at its disposal, and to the european commission, to ensure that the measures provided for in the european directive on temporary protection for immigrants become operational. the next meeting of the european council of ministers of the interior, scheduled for 11 april, must take steps to ensure that neither the immigrants nor the citizens of lampedusa are left in a desperate situation. the european union must therefore start a serious reflection on the european neighbourhood policy, which must focus on initiatives aimed at supporting democratic transformation, especially in the countries of the southern mediterranean. i would like to compliment mr provera.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at this point in the debate practically everything has been said, and that is perhaps the point. we are still talking and as we speak, the landings are still going on, people are dying at sea and crowding in inhumane conditions on the italian and maltese coasts, which are not the coasts of italy and malta, but the border of europe, the gateway to our european union to reach any of our 27 member states. there is no time to talk, our citizens tell us, and migrants who sought freedom and found themselves locked up in fenced-in camps tell us. it is time to act, commissioner. i ask you, and we ask you, to take the initiative tomorrow, after our vote, and to send the request to the council for the implementation of directive 55 of 2001 and together to establish a real strategy for the future of the mediterranean, because in this game europe is playing its own face, but also its future destiny.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is indeed a challenging situation. north africa is, of course, facing a challenge. the people there are now trying, especially in tunisia and egypt, to build new countries – democratic countries where there is respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. they are preparing for elections later this summer. we should do everything to support them in this fantastic journey. the commission is, as you know, preparing a revised strategy for the neighbourhood and it will be presented to the council. it will contain support for democracy, support for economic development, growth and job opportunities and there will also be an element of mobility. this is a challenge for which we should provide our support. we also have a challenge in libya, where the increased violence is creating a very insecure situation and forcing many people to flee. it is a challenge for european migration policy. in the long term, we need to develop a more global approach to this, very much in line with mr provera’s report, the input of which will be taken into account. in the short term, we of course need to conclude the asylum package. believe me, mrs keller, we are trying to do that. with the help of the european parliament and the efforts of the different rapporteurs to get the package together and conclude the negotiation with the parliament, i still hope that we can finalise this before the end of the year. there is a challenging facing lampedusa and malta. i would like to reject some allegations that the commission or 'brussels' has not been engaged in helping italy. we have, in fact, offered assistance to italy. for the remaining period under the current long-term budget, there is eur 171 million in the national envelope for italy. some of that money has not yet been used for italy, and we have been working with the italian authorities on an almost daily basis to see how programme financing can be reallocated so that it can be used to address the situation in lampedusa. we have also offered italy assistance to reimburse some of the costs of internal transfers of migrants. we have the frontex hermes operation, but i would like to remind you that frontex depends on the contribution of the member states, and that will be running out in a very short time. we have the answer: we have europol in place. we are engaged in talks with tunisia to seek a solution on an organised, dignified, voluntary return of those people who are not in need of international protection. we are helping tunisia to fight the trafficking networks and seeing how we can assist it in building up border control. this is part of a larger mobility partnership. most of the refugees are in tunisia and egypt. as i said, more than 400 000 people have left libya. most of these people have been repatriated. they are mainly tunisians and egyptians, but they also come from about 30 different countries, mainly in africa. there are also people from bangladesh, iraq, afghanistan, etc. most of these people have been repatriated through european assistance, with the member states working in a true spirit of solidarity with tunisia and egypt. but there are some people remaining. i visited these refugee camps only a few days ago. the tunisians are doing impressive work together with international organisations such as the unhcr. but there are a few people there, a few thousand, who are stranded. they cannot return home. we need to assist these people. they need to be resettled in europe. it is very difficult for me to explain to these somalis that you cannot come to europe because we have not agreed on delegated or implemented acts. so please, i urge you and the council to come to an agreement on this, because we could really fulfil the aim of the european resettlement programme and help those people, because they have nowhere to go. we are also seeing refugees coming to europe now – to lampedusa and to malta. i realise that malta, of course, with the size of the island, is under enormous pressure. we might see more people coming. many of these people might be in need of international protection. as long as the violence goes on in libya, the risk of more people having to flee will increase. these people are indeed a european challenge. they will probably need shelter. we have certain funds. we have certain agencies. we have certain policies to try to assist these people. as i said, we are considering the possibility of using the temporary protection mechanism. this can be activated when there is a mass influx of people who are unable to return. but for this to be activated it needs a qualified majority in the council. today that majority does not exist. we are of course monitoring this very closely and we will bring it back to the council next week. but before we activate this mechanism i am calling – and i will continue to call – on member states to put solidarity into action: not only to come out with beautiful words, but to act. we need to find solutions to assist italy and malta and possibly other countries who will be under pressure. i urge member states to do this. there are solidarity funds available for european countries who respond to this appeal. this will all be discussed at the justice and home affairs council next week. i will be happy to report back to you after that. thank you very much, madam president, for a very important debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i need to have a clarification from commissioner malmström. the commissioner said that the question of activating directive 55 would be discussed in the council. it will be discussed next week in the council because, if i understand correctly, there is no qualified majority today.
member of the commission. − madam president, maybe i was unclear there. everything that i presented to you, including some experiences from egypt and tunisia, will be discussed at the council next week. of course, the situation in north africa is the main point on the agenda. there is a reference in my speech to this temporary protection mechanism, but i do not know if there will be a decision or anything like that. it is very much up to the presidents as to how they want to monitor this, but we are monitoring this situation on an hourly basis. i just wanted to say that to date there is no such thing as a qualified majority to activate this protection mechanism.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before i come to the report i must give an answer to mr tavares and mr meyer. i have great respect for everyone's opinions, but i think their judgment on lampedusa and what has been done in lampedusa is not very generous. i wanted to inform them that in three nights 12,000 people have arrived in lampedusa. lampedusa is a small island, with 6,000 inhabitants, and in three nights 12,000 people suddenly arrived, and the number of people grew to 20,000. i think it's very difficult for any country to accommodate such a large number of people arriving in such a short time, on a small island that has no facilities for such a large number of arrivals. at present, there are 1,400 migrants on lampedusa. much has been done and as soon as sea conditions permitted, migrants were moved to other reception centres, mainly in the south of the country. that brings us to the report. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the different political parties who, with different sensitivities, have contributed in a very effective way to this report. they have made a fundamental contribution, in complete transparency, as was the initial spirit that animated us all when we started. i also thank commissioner malmström for the enthusiasm he has shown in this concept of burden sharing which should inform his action in the commission and therefore in the council. if you put that kind of enthusiasm into it, i think the results will come. i conclude by saying that it is very difficult to summarize. however, if a summary is possible, it is that as long as there are enormous differences in the levels of development between the north and the south of the world, as long as there are enormous differences in the quality of democratic institutions, as long as there are enormous differences in respect for human rights, any policy of reception will be ineffective and partial. we must take action in a major strategic policy of cooperation and aid which will address the structural causes of these enormous inequalities between the north and the south of the world. if we solve those structural causes, everything else will follow, and we'll probably all live in a better world.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 april 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. my view is very critical of the eu's action on immigration. the divergent interests of germany, france, spain and the other member states, divided between northern and southern europe, are putting italy in serious difficulty. the italian government would do well to hesitate less and act more, pushing back immigrants until europe has a real common immigration policy. the european union needs a common asylum policy and to ensure that the principles of solidarity and burden sharing do not remain on paper. this is what would happen if italy were to shoulder the burden of a situation which is changing the face of north africa and the whole mediterranean region. italy can no longer take in libyans, tunisians, egyptians, until france, germany or austria stop rejecting anyone from north africa who comes through its territory. until brussels coordinates with the governments in paris, berlin, vienna, as well as rome and the other member states on the management of migration flows, italy will do well to take a much more intransigent stance than it is taking at present.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas (2010/2054(ini) (a7-0016/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, as it was important to put this topic on the table. the commission is very conscious of the essential role women play in agriculture and in rural areas. it can see that this is a task for the rural development policy. the rural development regulation provides for support in a number of areas which are important for women in rural areas. the setting-up and development of micro-enterprises, adding value to agricultural projects and seeking sales outlets for them are only a few examples. the rural development policy also foresees possibilities to help men and women to balance family and professional life. for example, under the basic services measure, social facilities like day care centres for children or elderly people can be supported. in addition, local transport services and small-scale infrastructure are eligible for support. the situation in rural areas is very diverse across member states, including as regards possibilities and requirements for women. member states and regions have to carefully analyse the situation and design tailor-made measures linked to local conditions, taking account of the specific problems women face. for example, member states can give preference to women with regard to certain measures. in addition, member states can use financial engineering to set up guarantee funds in order to help women to get access to credit. women should also play an important role in the leader programme, where they should bring in their specific interests and their specific potential in order to mobilise the development potential of an area. the commission agrees that it would be useful to have more data on the situation of women. however, especially in the light of member states’ call for simplification, it would prove difficult to convince them of additional reporting burdens. but for those data for which it is possible, statistics should be presented and analysed, broken down by gender. the commission will include, where available, data on women in its progress report on the implementation of the strategic guidelines for rural development. one very important factor in taking women forward in agriculture and rural areas is the exchange of experience. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the european network for rural development and its constituent national networks. they can be used to learn from each other’s best practices and it would be desirable if more women’s associations made use of these existing networks in order to connect women in different rural areas with each other.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 april 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding for decommissioning of nuclear power stations in the new member states (2010/2104 ((ini)) (a7-0054/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission very much welcomes parliament’s own-initiative report on the efficient and effective eu funding of decommissioning of nuclear power plants in the new member states. nuclear safety is, and will remain, an absolute priority for the eu, and this is why the commission attaches great importance to efforts that facilitate the safe decommissioning of nuclear reactor units that have been deemed not to be upgradable to the necessary safety standards. let me first say that we share with parliament many of the views expressed in its report. we agree with the need for member states to provide detailed decommissioning plans, as well as sound long-term financial planning. we also deem it essential for the funds for the most part to be allocated to decommissioning activities and for the commission to have an important role to play in ensuring strict monitoring of the use of the funds. the commission believes in a strict application of the ‘polluter pays’ principle, so we share the opinion of parliament that it is up to the operators of the nuclear plant to ensure that financial resources for decommissioning are already allocated during the operational life of the plants. decommissioning must be made as safe as possible, and sound, transparent and supervised management of decommissioning funds is crucial for this. it can also be noted, however, that the report focuses on the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding in the area of decommissioning. the commission was glad to see, in various parts of the report, that there is full recognition that the main objective of the eu funding was, first and foremost, to ensure that the reactor units were closed and remained so for nuclear safety reasons. we believe that having met this objective is an essential element to be taken into account when assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding. the commission considers it important to clarify that eu support was never intended to cover the full cost of decommissioning, nor to compensate for all the economic consequences. eu support was aimed merely at contributing to compensation for the early stages of closure. the commission also underlines that it is the member state that bear full responsibility for the decommissioning of its nuclear installations. providing detailed long-term planning is the responsibility of the member states, which are equally responsible for establishing precise timetables and cost estimates for the completion of decommissioning. i would like to thank the rapporteur and parliament for this timely debate on an issue which, in the context of fukushima, has become more pertinent. safe and complete decommissioning is a key element of nuclear safety, for which we aim at the highest standards. parliament’s report constitutes a valuable contribution to the discussion that the commission will have with the three member states concerned in view of assessing possible financial eu support beyond 2013.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 5 april 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr kader arif, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the future of european policy on international investment (2010/2203 ((ini)) - (a7-0070/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission welcomes parliament’s report on the future european international investment policy. it is an important step that paves the way for the implementation of the new eu exclusive competence on investment. as you know, investment is a new frontier for the common commercial policy. we should seize the opportunity – we are in absolute agreement with parliament on this – to build together an integrated and coherent investment policy that promotes investments and makes a positive contribution both to economic growth and sustainable development. the commission also fully shares parliament’s statement that investor protection should remain the first priority of the european investment policy. we believe that the new policy should serve the purpose of assuring all european investors that they are able to operate in an open and properly and fairly regulated business environment, not only within the internal market, but also when operating in third countries. i also take note of parliament’s recommendation that the eu should draw on member states’ best practices found in their bilateral investment treaties. indeed, the thrust of the union’s action in this area should be to deliver better results than those obtained by member states individually. while aiming at high levels of protection for our investors, we should not compromise other objectives, such as the public capacity to regulate or coherence with other eu policies. the right of states and of the eu to take the measures necessary to achieve legitimate public policy objectives is a standing rule of the common commercial policy. it will equally apply to our investment policy. the dispute settlement regime and the related financial responsibility are also very important issues and we need to further reflect on them. our objective, as mentioned in the communication, is to ensure transparency, consistency of rulings and make the system as productive as possible. we also need to address a number of issues which arise because of the eu’s status under international law. we will take into account parliament’s views, as expressed in the report, when we analyse possible options and further ideas for a comprehensive approach to these issues. we will carefully consider all recommendations put forward in parliament’s report, while progressively developing and implementing our investment policy. the commission has already tabled proposals for investment negotiating directives for canada, india and singapore. we want to seize opportunities for ongoing wider trade negotiations and to engage in comprehensive investment negotiations with those countries. parliament’s opinion is therefore very timely, to guide the commission and the council when we define final respective negotiation directives. last but not least, i would like to assure you that, as the development of a comprehensive european investment policy is now a joint responsibility of all the institutions, the commission will stand ready to cooperate with parliament and the council while respecting the division of competences among all the institutions involved.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 april 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this council has dealt with three very important subjects: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the first point, although we are close to the people so badly affected, we cannot accept a revision of the trade agreements to the detriment of our companies. we are in favour of humanitarian intervention with means, men and money. to think that the financial crisis is over is pure utopia. it is essential to have a package of measures to help the member states to get out of the current situation, ensuring stability for the whole euro area. we are also in favour of reducing the regulatory burden and bureaucracy and promoting trade with third countries, provided that it is mutually beneficial. on the maghreb, we think the european union has made a bad impression, because each member country has acted independently and the high representative, baroness ashton, has not been able to manage the crisis. in particular, the european union has abandoned italy to an uncontrolled invasion of illegal immigrants.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, in my view of politics it is a duty to try to combine ideals with interests. in a somewhat schematic and childish view of the european institutions, i believe that the european institutions represent our ideals and that our governments, for many reasons, represent our interests. so there's a game to be played. what strikes me is that under certain circumstances, it seems to me that players in the game of ideals give up playing the game. a few weeks ago, mrs ashton, here, when parliament proposed that the council should recognize, or rather the commission should propose that the council should recognize, the libyan interim council, she said that was not her mandate. yesterday, after a very good speech, commissioner malmström, when it came to proposing to the council a strategy to make the crisis of migration flows european, said that he was giving up because he thought that there was no majority in the council. how does the team of ideals win the game if our players give up on the goal maybe because they think the goalkeeper is too good? i think this is an essential point for historically understanding the task we are called upon to do. i would like to make this observation: who are the offensive players? these are the european institutions: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. so i ask you simply: if you're the players on our offense, pass the ball, play offense, score goals and as they say in these kinds of games, let us dream.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the establishment of a permanent stability mechanism is an important achievement, which provides the basis for the political commitment to defend the common currency at all costs. the european parliament therefore supported this approach, despite its reservations about the intergovernmental nature and method of the fund, and focused on the objective of ensuring a strong link between the esm and the union institutions. in this sense, the reference in the european council conclusions to a regulation to establish the procedures for defining cross compliance is important and we now expect the commission to draw up an appropriate proposal. however, this positive result is difficult to consider adequate. the problem is the underlying direction of european economic governance. the emphasis is on treating the symptoms of the disease rather than the causes. the deficits are the effect and not the cause of the crisis and to think that we can solve the disease by simply cutting deficits with one hand and refinancing the banks with the other is illusory and risks aggravating the crisis and rendering the very task of the permanent stability mechanism unsustainable. if you want to treat the disease and not just the symptoms, you have to attack some of the underlying nodes. we are talking about strengthening europe's competitiveness. that is true, but what model of competitiveness are we pursuing? we cannot pursue the model of a recovery driven solely by exports outside europe, because that model will accentuate imbalances. to be more competitive with the outside world, we must also create a domestic demand for quality. we must therefore tackle the banking and credit system's link to the economy in order to channel european savings towards long-term investment. we must have instruments such as eurobonds, the financial transaction tax and a budget worthy of the name for large public investments at european level, which act as a steering wheel for private investments. finally, we must regard the european social model not as a burden but as a resource.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it represents a first step towards an eu policy on migration flows arising from instability. in this regard it is important that this parliament speaks out against this hysterical vision of a looming invasion of migrants and asylum seekers coming from the south. we are not going to be overwhelmed by millions of people escaping political deprivation and tyrannies. many people are afraid that asylum seekers are arriving in greater numbers, straining our buckling welfare systems. this claim is good to gain votes and build support for harsh immigration policies, but it is not backed by the facts. the overall number of people claiming asylum in the west dropped by more than 40% over the past decade according to data just released by the united nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too supported and voted for this dossier by mr provera because i believe it is a concrete and decisive step in the desired direction of solidarity, which is also provided for in article 80 with reference to solidarity within the member states of the european union, and with a clear and definite view of those who are in a position of great difficulty, as at this stage particularly north africa. respect for human rights, international cooperation, bilateral relations but also regional organisations such as the arab league and the african union which can add value to a stable and lasting peace process. we hope that progress will also be made through interventions in homogeneous areas which will give economic value to the realities that need to be supported and assisted in a path of constant and continuous growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european debate on migration, we often hear the following: "what problem can a country of almost 60 million inhabitants like italy have in welcoming a few tens of thousands of immigrants?" in this question two data are often ignored. first, many of these immigrants want to go to other countries in the european union. secondly, in the last two years, less than 4,000 people have landed on italian shores, thanks to bilateral agreements with libya and tunisia. in the last two months, after the political crisis, we've already reached 22,000 people. italy is a pressure cooker today. on the one hand, the flow from north africa, particularly the flow of economic migrants from tunisia, is not stopping. on the other hand, france, in ventimiglia, rejects migrants because they have no residence permit. if european solidarity exists, it is time to demonstrate it by jointly deciding at community level how to deal with these flows, both in emergency and in the long term, what instruments to implement in relation to those arriving in europe and what measures to adopt in the countries of origin. this text is a first step in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we voted for today provides some clarity on the phenomenon of migration flows and enhances the work of frontex. i think that this should be seen positively and, in that sense, the vote should be seen positively. i believe, however, that this position must be accompanied by equal clarity on the part of the member states, because this is a challenge which concerns the european institutions but also the policy of the member states. i must say, however, that this clarity has not been implemented and practised by all the member states so far, starting with the policy of the italian government, which has dealt with the situation in lampedusa in a very critical and questionable way, where thousands of migrants have been basically left to fend for themselves, whereas solidarity - more than legal, human - would have required immediate and certainly greater attention than has been given, except for the fact that we then had to deal, as we have done here, with the legal problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that many migratory flows are caused by instability, it is with a certain modesty that we use this term inappropriately, because instability is in fact war, genocide, uncontrolled violence, insurrections, the misery to which these peoples have been condemned, even with the silence of the european union. then there is the desire for freedom. the resolution we voted for calls for a policy towards the east of the union and its most appropriate instruments to deal with the various aspects that cause this instability. i wonder what credibility this foreign policy will have, given that events in libya and north africa have shown that there is no such thing as a foreign policy for the union. the governments of the states have gone their separate ways, offering a bleak spectacle to the world and to the people we are supposed to be helping. the union has been unable to offer a policy of reception for refugees except to a limited extent in relation to needs. the island of lampedusa and italy have not been given an answer. we therefore certainly vote in favour of this measure, but we call on the union to finally develop a foreign policy worthy of the name.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, women have always played an important role in agriculture and rural life. they account for 42% of the workforce out of a total of some 27 million workers. despite this high percentage, women are underrepresented in sectoral organisations and are discriminated against in decision-making. there are many areas in which the position of women can be improved, such as the recognition of adequate social protection. the european institutions should therefore act to close this gap, monitoring the sector, perhaps through an observatory for women entrepreneurs in agriculture, already active in calabria and other italian regions. the report voted on today, which i supported, also takes a good look at the problem of the exodus from the countryside. to help maintain employment, support policies and strategies are needed to build infrastructure and services adapted to the needs of modern life in rural areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that 42% of the 26-27 million workers in agriculture are women and 29% of the farms are run by women, their representation at the level of the various categories is almost nil and does not correspond to their weight. this is not right and it is not normal, and it is therefore necessary for the union to give women greater space in the rural sector and to find appropriate solutions for all the economic activities they carry out. gender equality, equal treatment, social protection for mothers and recognition of the specific role women play in agriculture. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. we share the rapporteur's proposals on supporting a better representation of women in all the political, economic and social bodies of the agricultural sector, on supporting social protection measures for direct farmers, agricultural wage earners and seasonal farmers. women must be recognized in the reform of the cap, otherwise this reform will be useless and we will not be able to imagine a peaceful future with further cuts in agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a dossier such as that presented by mr marinescu could not fail to be supported and shared in a context still characterized by the emotional wave of the events in fukushima. the rapporteur's approach to the document, which was absolutely balanced and cautious, nevertheless led me to support it. there is no doubt that the commitment to lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria must be sustained and consistent, but at the same time a number of other activities, those more simply called 'stress tests' but also all those aimed at caution, must ensure nuclear safety. there is no margin for error that can be made for the reasons known to all of us. the funding programmes were planned and secured long ago. we are confident that the operation will have a positive and concrete outcome, which will be a step forward in the direction we all want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of providing adequate financial resources to ensure the decommissioning of nuclear installations is a problem already addressed by the european union's legislation on nuclear safety and is of great relevance today, obviously in the light of recent international events and the consequent decisions of the union's governments in this regard. the work of mr marinescu, to which we have expressed our support, deals with the specific cases of certain countries which, at the time of their accession, undertook special obligations in the field of decommissioning nuclear installations and which have received special support from the european union for this activity. beyond specific cases, this argument calls for the establishment of effective verification and inspection controls of nuclear power stations in the territory of the union. the number of reactors estimated to have to be decommissioned in the near future in the community seems to be high. it will therefore be essential to ensure that, even and especially in these cases, adequate financial resources are made available to meet both ordinary and extraordinary needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported this dossier as a staunch anti-nuclearist, not only because i believe that the closure of these plants is a benefit for the whole community, but also because i hope that there will be no further achievements. we are facing a powder keg across europe today. the management of nuclear power stations for civil purposes is a management which now rests on outdated, anachronistic engineering protocols. we can say that this is an increasingly theoretical security and everything is fine until something happens. in fact, we are faced with protocols of 50 years ago which do not provide any protection in the face of events which can be increasingly unpredictable. terrorist attacks were not predictable, and natural and catastrophic events were not predictable - and it's not just earthquakes - which are increasingly, unfortunately, manifesting themselves in our disaster-stricken world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that by voting in favour of this report by mr svensson - as has been said by other members - we are making a commitment to the european commission's commitment to adopt, by 2011, a communication to launch a european strategy and action plan against violence against women, which takes a comprehensive approach, i.e. covering all cases, from sexual violence to domestic violence and female genital mutilation, but also - i hope - all new forms of violence. i am thinking of the actual incitement to violence, which is often perpetrated by certain advertising and media, and i am also thinking of the actual forms of blackmail and violation of the human rights of women in the workplace where they intend to become mothers or when they are workers and mothers. after the implementation and adoption of the directive on trafficking in human beings, which has been the subject of much work in the european parliament, and of the directive on the european protection order, i believe that a proper directive would be important in the new legal framework created by lisbon and the stockholm programme on this subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until all forms of violence against women are completely eliminated, we can never say that we have a modern society that is finally democratic. once again the european parliament is drawing attention to this brutal phenomenon, which unfortunately remains dramatically topical. the data speak for themselves: at least one in five women will experience physical or sexual violence in her lifetime, and indeed, for women between 15 and 44, violence is the leading cause of death and disability, even more than cancer or road accidents. this is why we need a real and permanent mobilization leading to the creation of a global legal instrument to combat all forms of violence against women. we need a strong signal today. the ultimate goal is one: this deadly virus must no longer find fertile ground.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for poland because i believe that this instrument represents a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. as has been repeatedly stated, since 2006 the egf has provided concrete assistance to european workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support for 594 redundancies, 200 of which were eligible for assistance, in 3 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 28 in the nuts ii podkarpackie region. the total amount of the egf is eur 453 570. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - i welcome the approval of the allocation of eur 453 000 from the egf to help polish workers made redundant in the machinery-building sector. following the recommendations of the committee on budgets, the european commission entered around eur 50 million in payment appropriations under the budget line for the egf in the 2011 budget. this allows us to approve the necessary funds without affecting other budget lines already dedicated to financing important actions in relation to the objectives and programmes of the union.
in writing. - mr president, on 15 february the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of poland, with the aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the request concerns 594 redundancies (of which 200 were eligible for assistance) in three enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 28 (packaging of clothing) in the nuts ii region of podkarpackie during the nine-month reference period from 1 june 2009 to 1 march 2010. my vote in favour of today's resolution reiterates the favourable opinion already expressed in the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. - mr president, political, social and economic instability, lack of security and political repression by authoritarian regimes are the main factors behind the migration and the waves of migration that are pouring in unceasingly on some countries in the mediterranean basin, leaving them unable to cope with the many difficulties that humanitarian emergencies entail. in recent weeks it has been impossible to ignore the thousands of migrants who have reached lampedusa as a result of the unrest in the countries of north africa. 90% of these people are young people between the ages of 15 and 35, who risk their lives in the hope of finding better opportunities. despite the extraordinary efforts of the italian government, local authorities and the italian red cross, the situation on the island is an emergency: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. today, the eu has a duty to develop an efficient and comprehensive migration policy, including the establishment of a european asylum system, the implementation of a mandatory reintegration programme capable of achieving a fair distribution of responsibilities, and agreements with states to encourage development.
in writing. - the recent events that have taken place and are still taking place on the opposite shores of the mediterranean show that the instability of this region and the resulting migratory flows represent a challenge for the european union to face. the migration phenomenon is a cause for concern because of the developments and tensions it can cause, both in the relations between the countries of origin and the countries of destination of migrants, but also between the countries of origin and the countries of transit of migrants. the prevention policy must be strengthened by optimising financial resources and improving existing institutional structures. we must limit illegal immigration and, in this sense, i believe that the extension of the migration agreements is an effective means of achieving results in the short term and reducing the instability of migration flows. i share the analysis contained in the report and, in particular, i agree that a bilateral mechanism allowing for active monitoring of the status of the protection of minorities, or other groups that may be subject to violations and suffer from a dimension of instability, should be included in the preparation of the post-2013 external relations instruments. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr provera's report because i believe it is a step forward in the desired direction of solidarity between states. in recent weeks, italy has been the destination of thousands of migrants fleeing north african countries. in the face of such a difficult situation, the eu cannot just leave my country, but must work to ensure that the treaties are respected, and in particular article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. at the same time, it is necessary to optimise existing financial resources and structures. the role of the frontex border agency, for example, needs to be strengthened and more funding. protection of human rights, increased financial resources, development of democracies, the rule of law and bilateral agreements are all instruments which, if properly applied, can certainly help to prevent mass migration.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which has been put to the vote today raises an important question: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. the challenge facing the european union is the obvious instability of north africa and the middle east. europe must be able to take up this challenge, in order to avoid negative consequences, by anticipating and implementing a preventive policy, which will deal with the causes of economic and political instability in these countries, proposing joint solutions that can avoid or at least mitigate the extent of the phenomenon. the resources required to do so are, however, considerable and will therefore require involvement and coordination with the other major powers. this is not to say that we should not respect the principle of solidarity. in view of this, europe has a duty to respond in a compact and coherent way, thus demonstrating its choice to give this policy priority over others. for these reasons, and because i am convinced of the important political signal that europe has a moral obligation to give in this matter, and not to leave the states alone, i have voted in favour of the above resolution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr provera's report in respect of one of the founding principles of the union, the principle of solidarity between peoples. the current situation, given the political crises in north africa and the slow or no response of european policy to the migratory flows, is so serious and problematic that i believe it must be addressed in a timely manner. the request to the council, by adopting this text, to give full effect to the solidarity clause with a concrete action plan and burden sharing among the member states cannot and must not be ignored. the text specifically calls for minimum standards for granting temporary protection to immigrants and for measures to share responsibility and effort between member states which, like italy, take in immigrants responsibly and unilaterally bear the consequences.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows caused by instability are the indirect consequence of human rights violations, environmental disasters and the lack of economic and social structures capable of ensuring the well-being of large sections of society. they represent a challenge for the eu, both in terms of development cooperation and in terms of preventing social tensions, which often arise not only between the countries of origin and destination but also between the countries of origin and transit. this challenge requires concrete eu responses, addressing not only the development cooperation dimension but also the foreign policy dimension, by implementing preventive measures at both regional and global levels in the fields of security, regional cooperation, bilateral agreements with countries of origin and transit, the protection of human rights and democratisation, making use of all available foreign policy instruments. i am firmly convinced of the importance for the eu of addressing directly the causes of instability, and of doing so by making better use of the instruments at its disposal, and i can only express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − managing migration flows caused by political instability is a key challenge for the eu. wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tensions, systematic violations of human rights, natural disasters and the absence of sound economic and democratic structures are the main causes of these flows. i believe that we must now implement a policy of prevention, by putting in place the most appropriate instruments to deal with the causes of instability. european foreign policy should focus on the sources of instability and structural difficulties in the countries of origin. i believe that this text represents an additional tool for the eu to devise a coherent and effective policy on the phenomenon of migration flows, directing the choices towards the most appropriate way of restoring conditions of political, economic and social stability.
in writing. - i am strongly opposed to this report. the motto 'united in diversity' means that everyone is the master of his own home and it cannot and should not be the eu that forces us to accept unwelcome guests. the fact that we are denied the right to send illegal immigrants back to their country of origin is contrary to common sense. if the law is not respected, millions of desperate refugees will be forced to flee. we must help those who are suffering but in their own homes, preventing human trafficking. i strongly reject the accusation of racism and xenophobia against europe because i am tired of witnessing the strikes of illegal tunisians because they are not given money to buy cigarettes, the refusal to eat tuna-based food because it tastes like fish, the claim to receive, once they land in italy, housing and work, of course free of charge, in the face of the unemployed and the poor who have lived in our country for all their lives. the high representative, baroness ashton, is to be congratulated on her failure to deal with the current crisis in the maghreb. the icing on the cake is that they are persecuted or have few rights, and therefore deserve special attention, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and transgender people.
in writing. - mr president, i am happy to support mrs jeggle's report, as it focuses on the 42% of women living in rural areas who play an indispensable role in the development of these areas, as well as in their stabilisation and modernisation by developing new forms of entrepreneurship. through their efforts, these women have shown that they can contribute to the evolution of traditional ways of living and producing in the countryside, creating economic activities that can provide employment and that allow family obligations to be reconciled with work. in order to ensure equivalent living conditions in all regions and to avoid the unilateral development of urban centres, it is necessary to equip all rural areas with the most modern it infrastructure, with adequate broadband access, and to develop electronic enterprises such as e-business that allow economic activity to be managed regardless of the distance from urban centres. the training of women and easier access to credit to support female entrepreneurship will also need to be improved. the social protection policies to be undertaken will also have to take account of the living conditions of migrant women employed as seasonal workers on agricultural holdings, with particular reference to the need to ensure adequate housing, medical insurance and health services.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion today is of particular importance because it focuses on the main points to be worked on in order to ensure that women make an effective contribution to the development of rural areas, while at the same time aiming to promote employment prospects in the context of the new common agricultural policy. i believe that the role of women in agricultural enterprises and rural areas is an important factor in territorial development policies. one of the main objectives of european rural policy is to ensure equal living conditions in all regions so that women and men can also take advantage of opportunities in the countryside. at the present stage of the cap's development, it is crucial to take account of the needs of women living in rural areas and, at the same time, to use their potential. i believe that, in the light of a future vision, more efforts will have to be made to ensure that the sustainable use of rural areas is efficient in terms of both energy and quality. moreover, a stronger commitment will be needed from all actors involved in the process of reforming the agricultural policy.
in writing. - given that the risk of social exclusion in rural areas is higher for women than for men and given the importance of the subject, i support this resolution with enthusiasm and a favourable vote, which, focusing on the role of women in agriculture, calls not only for greater consideration of women's occupational, agricultural and non-agricultural skills in the context of business and regional development strategies, but also for incentives to promote their involvement in the market, eliminating all forms of discrimination and improving their training and access to postgraduate and specialist courses.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague, rapporteur jeggle, on her work, which has made it possible to publicly appreciate in this house the 'multifunctional' role of women in agriculture. this role is still not adequately recognised, despite the fact that 42% of the 27 million or so workers employed in the sector are women and almost 29% of farms are run by a woman. i voted in favour of this document because i share the need to recognise the specific role that women play in agriculture. i also believe that it is important to identify the specific needs of women in rural areas and to adapt future strategies to them, starting with the next reform of the cap. the european union cannot ignore the professional, family and social aspirations of women living in rural areas. to enable this, however, the european institutions should ensure adequate support services and an innovative offer that is not exclusively market-oriented. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's proposals, particularly on the question of better representation of women in the political, economic and social bodies of the agricultural world.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i strongly supported mrs jeggle's report because i find in it important principles which need to be emphasized and supported in the future. of the total of some 27 million people regularly employed in agriculture in the eu, some 42% are women, and according to official statistics, one in five farms (around 29%) is directly managed by a woman. i invite you to reflect on the great contribution made by women to the development of many local communities, often accompanied by their disproportionate participation in decision-making processes. this is a limit to be overcome by a service policy which, through the new common agricultural policy (cap), can facilitate the processes of development and animation in the rural fabric of many areas. i am thinking in particular of training, counselling and business creation initiatives which, under the second pillar of the cap, could still be strengthened and could be the cornerstone of a significant improvement in the living conditions of women and men in rural areas. i think this is quite strategic, also in view of the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, with particular reference to initiatives focusing on innovation, research and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i strongly believe that the central role of women must be restored where their work is essential to the development or recovery of the local economy which contributes to the overall growth of our countries. the role of women in agriculture has changed dramatically in recent decades, becoming increasingly multifunctional. for this reason, action by the european institutions is needed to prevent women leaving the countryside or to encourage them to return to rural life. support for women and their projects would make it possible to make progress in the development of rural communities as a whole. women in agriculture must be given the opportunity to realise their life plans and become economically independent, including in the face of family responsibilities. agricultural jobs must remain attractive to women so that they can fit in to carry out their multiple occupational skills. in this period of financial and economic crisis, it is essential to provide equivalent working conditions in both rural and urban areas, so as to repopulate territories that can be a driving force for the economic recovery of a given european region.
in writing. the new community agricultural policy (cap) also focuses its work on social issues such as the role of women in rural areas. the common objective is to avoid development exclusively in towns and cities and, consequently, to avoid discrimination on grounds of sex and/or geographical origin of citizens living in rural areas. i agree with these proposals and voted in favour of the report which stresses the importance of the role of women in farms and rural areas and how important this role is for territorial development policies. the report indicates the areas to be worked on for the better integration of women, to make the most of their employment potential and to improve their life prospects through greater ecological and energy efficiency in rural areas.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, women are the backbone of the agricultural sector in rural areas. it is therefore important to emphasise the role of the latter on farms and in rural areas. in this respect, their needs must be taken into account and their potential exploited, since aspects such as quality of life and economic power are linked, especially in rural regions, to the presence and involvement of women on several fronts. it is therefore essential that their needs and conditions are reflected more strongly than ever in european support policies, so as to avoid the exodus of women of all generations from the countryside or at least to encourage the return of the latter to rural life. in this respect, eu aid can help to improve the quality of life in rural areas, both for women who run businesses or provide services and for women who consume goods and services. as women play an indispensable role in the sustainable development of rural areas, i am voting in favour of this so as to ensure that women are given practical support in this area.
in writing. − in europe, sustainable rural development has always been considered a priority, in order to ensure optimal living conditions for men and women who decide to undertake this specific activity. at present, 26.7 million people in the european union are employed in agriculture. of these, 42% are women and at least one in five farms is run by a woman. these simple data reveal a radically different reality for rural women than in previous decades, where women have played a leading role in these changes, with very different social and economic situations between the states. i therefore agree with the text of this report, which stresses the need to plan european support strategies for rural areas 'tailored to women' in order to contribute in the medium term to an improvement in their social and working conditions.
in writing. - the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas is only to be welcomed because we still believe in the professional farmer who lives on the income from his farm. women, because of their typical nature as mothers and their routine role as carers of other family members, are undoubtedly disadvantaged in the agricultural sector. the time of farming is not fixed but must take account of seasonal requirements, growing seasons and the possible presence of livestock. there are periods when the working days will be 12-13 hours including holidays and others when they are quieter. it is clear that a woman who is a farmer, for example on maternity leave, cannot give up working the land if that period requires it, because otherwise she would not have an income for the whole year. the needs of a female farmer are therefore different from those of another worker, and it is therefore essential that they are provided with appropriate and dedicated services, taking into account the fact that farms are almost always located far from public services, whether transport, care or social services.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the catastrophic accident in japan a few weeks ago shows, for those who have not yet understood it, that nuclear energy is no joke: the commission has therefore a duty to check how the programmes for the dismantling of the old power stations in the three former communist countries have been implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr marinescu's report, which focuses on a very topical issue today. in the light of what has happened in japan, questions are now being raised about the safety of existing and operating nuclear power stations in europe. the commitment made by lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia in the eu accession negotiations to dismantle old nuclear reactors for which it was not possible to meet the minimum safety standards required must be a sustained and consistent commitment to which the european union has long established and ensured support and financing programmes. i hope that the dismantling work will proceed swiftly and ensure maximum safety for citizens and the environment. i also hope that the delays which have been partly accumulated will be made up and that the operations will be completed within the deadlines set. finally, i would like to stress, beyond specific cases, the need to provide for verification checks also for other reactors in europe, by making the institutions responsible for the safety management of both existing plants and new ones, should they be built in the future.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in the new member states is more topical than ever. the recent events in japan have made the need for security more urgent than ever. the report by mr marinescu deals more specifically with the issue of providing adequate financial resources to ensure the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. since their entry into the european family, these states have assumed certain obligations relating to the decommissioning of nuclear installations on their territory. in response to these obligations, the eu has committed to providing adequate financial support. i believe that the european union must propose decisive action on certain issues close to the citizen, such as the safety of nuclear installations.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the text on eu funding for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria because, in view of the recent events following the earthquake and the nuclear crisis in japan, i believe that a policy of nuclear reactor safety control that leaves no margin for risk is fundamental and indispensable for the european union. the countries concerned had old soviet-designed nuclear reactors in operation whose renewal was deemed technically impossible in order to bring them into line with the international safety standards now required. the union funding is consequential to the economic burden borne by countries for the closure of nuclear installations.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding for decommissioning of nuclear power stations in the new member states, tabled on 14 march 2011, aims to assess the results achieved in the field of decommissioning of obsolete nuclear power stations on the basis of the experiences of lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia, which have received eu financial assistance for this purpose since 1999. security of energy supply is one of the key priorities of the eu's energy strategy. according to current forecasts, the delays in the programmes will not prevent the start of decommissioning and waste management activities and the execution of the works by the plant staff by 2013. however, there remains a strong concern that decommissioning plans have not yet been finalised and that efforts are needed to improve the management of financial resources and coordination with the national authorities of the member states concerned. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is of paramount importance to keep the focus on the decommissioning of the nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, where, at the time of their accession to the european union, old soviet-designed nuclear reactors were still in operation and could not be upgraded to the latest safety standards at sustainable costs. after the recent disaster in japan, it is no longer possible to delay such procedures for the safety of all european citizens and beyond, and the exceptional financial burden to be borne in this connection can no longer be an excuse for any delays. the european union has therefore committed itself to providing adequate financial assistance for the decommissioning of these reactors until the end of 2013. any further delay cannot be tolerated in the interests of the european community as a whole and must be immediately reported to all appropriate authorities.
in writing. - following the nuclear disaster at the japanese power station, which was also due to the failure to adapt to current safety standards, we can say that we made a good choice when, during the accession negotiations, we set binding closure dates for three old soviet-designed nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. the final closure and safekeeping date was set for 2013, with an estimated cost to the european union of almost eur 3 billion. the report calls on the commission, following delays and increased costs in securing the three plants, to monitor more closely and to verify the current situation and the forecasts for the implementation of the different phases of the decommissioning process according to the initial timetable.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the czech republic, because i consider it a valuable instrument to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. today's vote concerned a request for support for 634 workers in the unilever cz company, operating in the retail trade sector in the nuts ii region of střední čechy, for an amount of eur 323.820 financed by the egf. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the egf, which has proved to be a useful and effective resource in recent years in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation adjustment funds are funds set aside by the union to provide economic support to certain sectors in difficulty in the member states or sectors which are expanding towards the average standards of the union, which is why i voted in favour of mrs matera's report. the union budget line for 2011 for the allocation of such funds has been increased by eur 50 million, thus making it easier to grant funds for the most diverse sectors, in particular the first calls for funds for 2011 for the machinery manufacturing sector from the czech republic and poland. the fund (almost €1 million) will support skilled workers in trade and machinery manufacturing.
in writing. - on 15 february, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in the czech republic to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the application concerns 634 redundancies, all of which were eligible for assistance from the fund, in the unilever company operating in the retail sector in the nuts ii region of střední čechy during the four-month reference period from 16 september 2009 to 16 january 2010. my vote in favour of today's resolution reiterates the favourable opinion already expressed in the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. - the control of exports of dual-use goods, i.e. goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, has been the subject of action at union level for some 15 years. this control has a significant impact on european trade policy, as it can affect more than 10% of all eu exports. in my view, the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the related clarification of the eu's competences in the field of international trade provide a valuable opportunity to reaffirm the role of the union and the responsibility of the european parliament within the eu institutional framework for decision-making. the main export control instrument is regulation (ec) no 428/2009 which has made a number of significant changes to the scope of controls on exports of dual-use items in the european union. in particular, i believe that the eu dual use regime should be organised in a more transparent way. to this end, i agree with the rapporteur that it would be decisive for the european parliament to be fully involved in implementing the obligations of the lisbon treaty and in adopting a joint interpretation of it by parliament and the commission in the context of the new framework agreement.
in writing. the report by the honourable member deals positively with the important subject of eu export controls on dual-use goods, i.e. goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. the control of such exports, which account for more than 10% of total eu exports, is of particular importance for the purposes of arms non-proliferation. i am voting in favour of the report because it seeks to introduce more transparent control procedures for these exports.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new eu powers in the field of international trade now introduced by the lisbon treaty provide a good opportunity to make the dual-use market more transparent. the amendments to this regulation, which covers products for both military and civilian use, will bring about closer control of these products. this is essential for the purposes of non-proliferation. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also been consulted on this matter.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1334/2000 establishing a community regime for the control of exports of dual-use goods and technology, presented on 7 february 2011, aims to provide the union with an effective system of preventive measures to counter the proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. the regulation currently in force in this area (ec no 428/2009) sets up a control system that enables the union to fully comply with the commitments under the four international export control regimes of which the eu is a member. however, the clarification of the eu's competences in the area of international trade introduced by the treaty of lisbon provides a good opportunity to increase the prominence and strengthen the union's image in such international contexts and the role, power and responsibility of the european parliament in the eu institutional framework with regard to decision-making in the field of international trade. for these reasons i think it appropriate to make the necessary amendments to the rules of procedure to enable these objectives to be achieved and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the control of exports of dual-use goods, i.e. goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, has been the subject of action at european level for some fifteen years. such control is essential to prevent the proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. given the high volume of trade across the borders of the european union, the implementation of controls on eu exports of dual-use items should be based on preventive measures such as the imposition of export authorisation requirements and customs registration procedures. the adoption of this resolution is a further step in that direction. i voted in favour of this report because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon provides a good opportunity to reaffirm europe's role and the european parliament's power and responsibilities in the eu institutional framework in taking such decisions. the system must be reorganised in a more transparent way, by implementing the obligations laid down in the treaty and by adopting a joint interpretation of it by parliament and the commission in the context of the new framework agreement.
in writing. the purpose of the measure proposed by the european commission is to introduce the oecd-negotiated 'agreement on publicly supported export credits' into european legislation to ensure common rules and transparency in the operations of national export credit agencies. this is a good measure in itself, because it combats corruption and the lack of transparency which results in a great deal of time and expense, but it is improved by mr jadot's report, which is aimed at further increasing transparency and fairness in the introduction into community legislation of the agreement negotiated within the oecd.
in writing. - trade with the outside world is one of the most important policy levers we have in relation to third countries. at least until it was decided otherwise, the eu chose not to have its own army and to adopt trade policy as a negotiating tool in international relations, with considerable satisfaction. the foreign direct investment of our companies is also a source of development for the third countries where it creates jobs and it certainly makes sense to stimulate it through export credit agencies. what we can no longer allow in an internal market with a single customs tariff is that these investments can be directed by individual member states. this is not the path the eu has set out on and is trying to propose to the rest of the world. the transfer of all competence in international trade from the level of the states to that of the union is a further step in the construction of a unified industrial policy, with a view to a common economic policy and, in the future, to further synergies between our states.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, export credit agencies (eca) are the world's main source of official financing for private sector projects. however, they can also create a huge distortion of trade if their financing operations are not governed by common rules. therefore, a review of the oecd agreement (agreement on officially supported export credits) is necessary to better monitor the fairness of the financial transactions of european ecas and to ensure their consistency with eu policies and objectives. furthermore, clarity should be provided on the transparency requirements in relation to the calculation of risks and the publication of off-balance sheet instruments. in essence, it is essential to establish an obligation for eu member states to report on an annual basis to the commission on the activities of their aces in the above areas. in the light of the foregoing, and considering that aces can be effective tools to contribute to the union's external objectives (in particular climate change and the fight against poverty), i express my favourable opinion on the adoption of this resolution as i consider export credits to be an important instrument to support trade and investment by european businesses.
in writing. most industrialized countries have an export credit agency. these agencies are, taken together, the world's main source of official funding for private sector projects. the financial support of large industrial and infrastructure projects in developing countries by export credit agencies is considerably higher than the combined annual financing of all multilateral development banks. agencies facilitate legal trade where the private capital market is lacking. since they are not taxed and do not make a profit, they have a much higher risk-absorbing capacity than private players and therefore enjoy a greater margin of manoeuvre than private banks, even on large loans. however, for the same reason, they can create a huge distortion of trade if their financing operations are not governed by common rules. i voted in favour of this report because export credits must be subject to conditions of repayment within a certain period and to the charging of a minimum premium rate to cover the risk of non-repayment of export credits.
in writing. − in europe, one in four women will experience at least some form of violence in her lifetime. the annual cost of violence is around 33 billion euros, a figure that should not be underestimated. respect for the principle of gender equality is a value that is constantly neglected in the face of a wide range of human rights violations affecting women, penalising them in their physical and mental health, their rights and their position within society. the limited data available does not give us a global picture of the phenomenon, but it is enough to look at one's own family or work environment to see how women are still not protected from violence. i appreciate the commission's commitment to present in 2011-2012 the 'communication on a strategy to combat violence against women, domestic violence and female genital mutilation', which will be followed by an eu action plan, but i also hope that a comprehensive political approach will be adopted, including legal, judicial, executive and health actions that can effectively reduce this type of violence and its consequences, unfortunately also for the 26% of children and young people who reported having suffered physical violence in their childhood.
in writing. − gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union. despite decades of talk about violence against women, the international community has still not succeeded in putting an end to this serious form of crime. gender-based violence causes serious damage to the psychophysical health of the individual, and this results in high costs for society because, as a social problem, it involves legal and health costs. the social costs of gender-based violence, in the form of expenditure on health, justice and social services, are estimated to be €2 million per hour in all eu member states. in my view, a major area where strong legal protection of the psychophysical integrity of women is required is that of genital mutilation. i believe that acts which seriously damage women's health cannot be justified on cultural grounds. it is also essential to increase awareness of the scale of gender-based violence in europe, so that the public is more aware of this issue. i therefore welcome the action to encourage member states to develop national action plans to combat gender-based violence.
in writing. - i expect a report on violence against women today to highlight as an absolute emergency the growing violence against women within muslim communities in europe. the phenomenon is growing, and this is according to the associations in europe dealing with women's rights and gender-based violence. the matter is plain to see, but there seems to be a certain retrogradeness in admitting the problem in the correct terms. the report mentions, for example, forced marriages and female genital mutilation, but these phenomena, which are increasing exponentially in our cities, are treated as problems of a cultural matrix. the truth is that they are linked to the mass presence of immigrants who bring to europe a fundamentalist conception of religion, the islamic one, which today is paid for by the women who belong to those communities, but which tomorrow could affect our women and western society at its heart. it is on this, and not on the meaningless 'cultural' violence, that the eu must put in place adequate and targeted policies to combat a phenomenon which is rapidly expanding today and which will become impossible to manage tomorrow at this rate.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is an evil in our society which we must combat at all costs. but i cannot support this resolution because i think that too much attention is being paid to migrant women. this attention, especially at this time, should be really visible from the eu and its governments and should not be limited to nice words of support in european projects.
in writing. − a european regulatory framework to combat violence against women is a necessary step forward in a global strategy. only a combination of legal, social, economic and preventive measures can help to solve a problem that is not so far from our reality, since more than a quarter of women in the european union have suffered violence in their lifetime. violence against women does not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic origin or culture, and it remains an invisible problem that nevertheless has very high human, social and economic costs. the european union must assert its active role in combating discrimination against women and that is why the svensson report supports the european commission in its efforts to develop a clear and homogeneous regulatory framework in the context of the stockholm programme. i therefore welcome the call for a criminal law instrument to define violence against women as a real crime, through the development of a directive against gender violence, to be combined with the many initiatives of training, prevention and awareness raising to combat all forms of abuse against women.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has adopted the motion for a resolution on the definition of a new eu policy framework to combat violence against women. i strongly and convincingly supported the resolution because i believe that the european union must respond to this social scourge in a united manner, by providing for joint and effective political action. violence against women, whether physical, psychological or sexual, is an expression of incivility which europe must repudiate, a plague which produces traumas which inexorably affect the social life of women. the statistics we have paint a sad and bleak picture. one in four european women has been a victim of violence at least once in her life. i therefore believe that the identification of uniform legal instruments, the possibility of free legal aid, the creation of reception centres capable of providing psychological and moral support and the activation of a single emergency number throughout europe are the priorities which the eu must pursue with its action.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is an international and european problem. gender-based violence includes violations in the form of violence in family relationships, sexual abuse, human trafficking and prostitution, forced marriage, genital mutilation and other forms of violation of personal integrity that particularly affect women and girls. in this connection, a series of political, social and legal measures must be adopted in order to guarantee european women a decent life. in its own-initiative report, the european parliament stresses that this violence can be eliminated by ensuring comprehensive and consistent legal protection of their integrity. it is also necessary to record the extent of this type of crime; to raise awareness of the implications of sexual abuse in the courts; identify this type of violence early, through active and preventive work; ensuring legal certainty of the investigation and trial; establish new reception centres and a victim hotline; support research in this field. on the basis of the foregoing, i am voting in favour of the practical implementation of all the measures necessary to combat this type of violence and the drawing up of effective action plans to combat it.
in writing. - the report on combating violence against women is a text on which i would have liked to vote in favour because the intention was to provide for a global intervention to protect women victims of violence. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the problem, as is often the case in the european parliament, is that any text is good enough to include subjects which should be dealt with exclusively in autonomous texts. in this case, the rights of migrant and refugee women are being violated, and they are in fact a privileged category of women compared to european citizens. for this simple reason i shall abstain, because, although i agree with the article, i cannot accept its political exploitation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although i am a eurosceptic, i could be in favour of a 2020 approach to eliminate discrimination, difficulties and marginalisation, if there were really a decisive action by the european commission to control the behaviour of states. but when i hear these words of great future, of great control, from a european commissioner who still does not explain to me why in his country, the grand duchy of luxembourg, the encampments of those nomads are prohibited, while they can settle near my house in italy and france. so we are talking about giving the nomads a home, whereas in some european countries, namely commissioner reding's european country, they cannot even set up camp. today's issue of my country's leading newspaper, il corriere della sera, reports on a parent - who does not deserve the definition of a nomadic parent - who was arrested in italy for selling his baby girl to traffickers who wanted to send her to prostitution. she sold her baby. others send them to do other things. it is they who often do not send their children to school, despite the pressure and attention of the authorities, mediators and associations. do we want to talk about these problems, too? we want to get rid of the slices of sausage of idiotic goodness and understand that many of the problems of the roma depend exclusively and mainly on them?
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2012 section i parliament (2011/2018(bud)) (a7-0087/2011).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for parliament's estimated budget, mr fernandes, for having succeeded in balancing the requests of the general secretariat and the suggestions of commissioner lewandowski on the containment of the administrative expenditure of the european institutions. the message that this parliament wants to send is one of responsibility, keeping the demands for increases in appropriations below the rate of inflation, at a time of difficulties for the public finances of the member states. i hope that the council, which will have to assess the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the ceiling of heading 5 in order to finance policies in favour of young people, will take a favourable view. i believe it is essential to find additional funding to support youth employment, which is currently at historic lows in much of europe, in order to accelerate the achievement of the key principles of the europe 2020 strategy and to boost economic growth, which is based on our young people and their access to high-quality training.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the european parliament's budget forecasts for 2012 rightly stresses the absolute need to contain expenditure. the compromise reached seems acceptable, with an increase in expenditure of 2.30%, i.e. below the expected inflation and therefore with a theoretical saving. we are still a long way from the commissioner for the budget's demand that the institutions should limit their needs to a one-percentage-point increase, which some institutions, such as the council, have succeeded in achieving. i shall leave aside for the moment the questions concerning this increase, which is probably justified by the greater post-lisbon attributions, and i would like to say a few words about the house of european history. the committee on budgets has been making crazy figures about this house of european history, both in its construction and its management. it seems to me to be absolutely absurd that at this moment we should even think of investing tens and tens of millions of euros in a project of very dubious utility, totally out of place and out of time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mr fernandes on the excellent work he has done and on the positive atmosphere of cooperation between the bureau and the committee on budgets, which has enabled us to reach agreement on the estimated balance of parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2012. as the debate showed, a proposal that suggested a rate of increase of 5,2% compared to 2011 has led to an overall level of the draft forecast state that represents an increase rate of 2,3%. i also think it is important to provide for a transfer of eur 100 million to projects relating to youth, a policy which parliament has identified as a priority for 2011, to finance projects promoting mobility, education and employment for all young europeans. finally, i hope that the 2012 budgetary procedure will promote, through the commitment of all the institutions, the optimisation of resource management.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur. i must say that this report unfortunately shows a certain lack of attention on the part of the commission towards this parliament, which, already in the work of last year, had indicated to the commission certain specific actions to be taken in order to be able to respond to this objective which we set ourselves to protect the financial interests of the european union and the interests of the taxpayer, to combat fraud and to fight against illegality. the rapporteur has said that there is no lessening of concern about the misuse of european funds and the rates of irregularities or suspected fraud reported are still very high. so if the aim of our control work is to ensure the recovery of resources, we should say that we have failed given the data that we have been given. the commission, as we said in our report last year, should take on the task of addressing some of the fundamental criticisms which i would group into three categories, as my predecessors have also said. firstly, the responsibility of the member states, in particular by working on the mechanisms for detection and reporting by the member states themselves. secondly, the clarity of the rules. it is essential that a uniform and clear definition of the concepts of fraud, irregularity and error be established. finally, transparency, which means not only having certain data from surveys, on which we can draw our conclusions, but also implementing the publication of data on the website, which is a bit slow. on the first point, namely the responsibility of the member states, i would also point out that the lack of harmonisation of national systems leads to significant differences in the timing of detection of fraud and irregularities. italy has been mentioned several times. italy is also mentioned in the rapporteur's document. we certainly have unbearably long probationary times and we are trying to work on the administrative and criminal justice times. but i say that if there is no uniform definition of fraud and irregularities, it is clear that the recovery times of states like italy will seem excessively long.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur. the report takes account of the changes in the control and communication systems. this also shows a great deal of heterogeneity, particularly as regards the reporting of irregularities and fraud by the member states. the report repeatedly points out the strange low levels of fraud and irregularities reported by several countries in relation to agricultural expenditure, the structural funds and the pre-accession funds. it is really necessary to clarify the statistics that have been provided. the picture is further aggravated by the unresolved problem of the inefficiency of recovery. however, one thing is clear and confirms a long-term trend. the fight for legality and transparency in the spending of european resources, as well as the fight against revenue evasion and avoidance, cannot yet rely on the full cooperation of the states and governments together with the european institutions. in this connection, i think that the calls for revision of community procurement legislation and the need for what i call a european public register of beneficiaries of community funds are appropriate.
vice-president of the commission. - i thank mr harkin for also highlighting the work being done by the commission, but also for calling for a greater commitment from the executive. at this stage we are waiting for the policy recommendations of the expert group before we can indicate a complete strategy from the commission. in the medium-term working document the expert group proposed a three-pillar bridge to bridge this innovation gap. each of the pillars represents a condition that must necessarily be met in order to spread kets in the european union. the first concerns technological research. europe must develop more competitive technologies up to the prototype stage which are protected by patents. this requires that the union's research programmes be more focused on technological research. the second is the demonstration of products. we must be able to convert technological achievements into competitive products, and this requires rebalancing the union's research programmes by means of demonstration projects. the third pillar is global industrial competitiveness. europe must maintain its current advanced production capacity or create new ones in order to compete on a world scale with innovative products in terms of price and size. to this end, the framework conditions for investors should be improved to encourage them to invest in the european union. so we must not only attract investment but also do a better job in all the community programmes which can help this important sector, and try to bridge the gap between research and application which is characteristic of many sectors of the european union's productive activity. this transition from research to application is a problem for the whole industrial sector. that is why i am in favour of and have supported the cluster policy - we have about 2000 - which makes it possible to link research and industry, universities, research and industry, universities, research and industry and innovation, to make our industrial system more competitive. mr harkin, this is the state of the art. we shall continue to work and i shall examine all the proposals and suggestions that come from the european parliament with great care and i shall take advantage of all the information that this house will give me.
member of the commission. − when my services started to prepare the reform package for the common fisheries policy, they carried out a thorough impact assessment of a number of possible reform options. one of these options was to continue the current policy beyond 2013. this status quo has been used as a benchmark for comparing the impact of other possible options. this status quo scenario takes into account new long-term management plans, the control regulation and the regulation on illegal, unreported fisheries. the results of the status quo scenario option are clear: if we do not change our policy then, by 2020, sustainability of stocks will in general be out of the question. regarding environmental sustainability, only 6% of the stocks analysed would reach maximum sustainable yield by 2020. this should be compared with our obligation to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015. so if we continue under the status quo situation there is no way we will fulfil our obligation to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015 with reference to the economic performance of our fishing fleets, under the status quo scenario only some fleets will be economically viable. the catching sector as a whole will have profits close to zero or even worse. finally, the picture for social sustainability is the same. employment in the catching sector would continue to decline at the same pace as is the case now; wages would remain low, which would make the profession of fisherman increasingly unattractive to the younger generation. so the status quo is really not an option for the commission. we need the reform and we are working for it.
i share the concern of my colleagues for the fisheries sector in the mediterranean and i also share the concern for the protection of marine ecosystems. but in view of the socioeconomic difficulties of activities relating to the sea, and in particular of certain maritime communities which are being hampered by the rigidity of community legislation, i ask whether the commission intends to find balanced and immediate solutions in order to protect both the ecosystems and the many european citizens who work in the sector.
in the context of the new mediterranean fisheries policy and in the context of the situation of the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, which are experiencing a deep crisis, do you think that crossborder cooperation can be a valid way of tackling the issue together within the framework of cohesion policy, in order to find joint solutions between crossborder and fisheries policy that will allow the recovery of stocks in the mediterranean and facilitate the recovery of this economic activity?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank you for the opportunity to discuss with you the report on european political parties and their foundations. i would also like to thank mrs giannakou for preparing this own-initiative report. we in the commission consider that report to be a very important one. we know that european political parties play an important role in european integration. in particular they contribute to ensuring that political issues are presented and discussed from the european perspective in time, before the elections to the european parliament, thus avoiding situations where these elections are dominated by purely national issues, which, as we well know, is very often liable to be the case. i therefore welcome the forward-looking tone of the report and look forward to discussing its content tonight and in the future as well. article 12 of regulation (ec) 2004/2003 stipulates that the european parliament shall publish by 15 february 2011 a report on the application of this regulation and the activities funded. the report shall indicate, where appropriate, possible amendments to be made to the funding system. we welcome, as i said, mrs giannakou’s own-initiative report and the accompanying resolution as a positive step, but it must be underlined that information on the actual implementation of the current regulation and the activities funded could be more precise and improved. in this context and in the light of the vote by parliament tomorrow, the commission could be called upon to act through a further revision of regulation (ec) 2004/2003 and the financial regulation, or through new legislation. should parliament come to the conclusion that the relevant existing legislation requires modifications, or that new legislation is required, the commission will seriously examine these conclusions and, if it agrees, will take the necessary initiatives. the commission will also reflect on how regulation (ec) 2004/2003 could be further improved in the longer term in order to support the development of stronger and genuinely transnational political parties and foundations at european level, with a view to developing a truly political european public space. on the specific issue of a legal statute for european political parties, i am aware that this is not the first time that parliament has called for such a statute. this issue is addressed in some detail in a study that was commissioned by the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) and i believe that the study itself clearly demonstrates that a range of complicated constitutional, political and practical issues are at stake with regard to establishing such a statute. the matter therefore requires a very careful and detailed analysis indeed. the same can be said about some of the other issues brought up in the report. for the proposals that would require amendments to the financial regulation, the commission also sees the need for a wider reflection on legislative solutions and the timing of the possible changes. in conclusion, mrs giannakou’s report and the accompanying draft resolution raise issues that are at the heart of european integration and its democratic nature, and which therefore need our full attention. i look forward to the debate on those issues tonight and in the future as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mrs giannakou very warmly for her great and intelligent work. when we talk about political parties, we must recognize two difficulties. first, in no country are parties held in high esteem. secondly, when european elections are held, political parties are seen as pursuing national interests rather than european interests. so there is a lack of positive public opinion both about the parties and about their role in european integration. it is therefore urgent to react. not only in the treaty of lisbon, as has already been mentioned, but in many constitutions, in almost all european constitutions, the role of the parties is considered to be in the national interest and therefore indispensable for building democracy and pursuing the common good. it is important to emphasize that i am talking about constitutions, not ordinary laws, and that i am therefore talking about the basic structures of the states and of the european union itself. it is therefore urgent to define the statute of parties which are truly european, and not just the algebraic sum of individual national formations which do not have a permanent european structure on the ground. we need parties that think and act in a european way. the need i represent is all the greater if we really want to achieve a uniform european electoral law which, hopefully, should even include a single european college in addition to the national colleges. this will increase the sense of belonging of european citizens to europe. i come now to the heart of my speech. as has already been pointed out - and i thank the commissioner in advance - my committee has worked hard, held hearings and held numerous meetings, but there must be a proposal, an initiative by the european commission, which places european parties within the law of the union with a new legal form of public law, with a legal personality valid also in all the member states and with an organisational uniformity that enables them to act as representatives of the european public interest. i thank mr giannakou and the commissioner for their promises.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the single market act lies in its desire to respond to the needs of the single market by facilitating access and participation by all the actors involved: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information. in view of this ambitious objective, i am satisfied with the proposals put forward by commissioner barnier and the indications given by this parliament. in my view, certain priorities are essential if the european union is to achieve the objectives it has set itself, in particular: improve access to the internal market for small and medium-sized enterprises by reducing administrative burdens and facilitating their participation in procurement procedures, remove all obstacles to the development of electronic commerce and support and finance innovation, in particular through the issuance of bonds for european union projects, especially in the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors. finally, only by linking the development and support of business with the employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy will we be able to achieve what i believe is the objective of this act, namely to create a social market economy based on growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to restore confidence in the market, we must give priority to the needs of consumers, workers and businesses. the social dimension of the future single market requires a great deal of attention if we are to strengthen the rights of citizens, workers and users of public services. growth, development and social dimension must go hand in hand. there must be economic growth that serves the people. the package of rules for enterprises contains some good proposals in this respect, including the action plan to increase access for small and mediumsized enterprises to the capital markets and the new lines of financing for innovative enterprises and regional development. small and mediumsized enterprises are the heart of our economy and the engine of growth in the internal market. mr president, it is up to us to guarantee these objectives in order to emerge from the crisis and to promote a new model of development, sustainable development and new quality employment.
the committee on petitions has also tabled a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i think i can say that the work of the rapporteurs was excellent and that the words of the commission and the council were very encouraging and very encouraging. these three reports retain the spirit and the great impetus of mario monti's new strategy for the single market and succeed in representing the single objective of reviving the european single market through fifty measures, which are then reproduced and summarized, or emphasized, by this parliament with fourteen priorities. within these measures, 19 are devoted to the centralisation of the market on the interests of the citizen. i believe that if we are to succeed in fully realizing the single market, it is of the utmost importance that we reduce the distance between citizens and the single market by working to restore citizens' confidence in the single market, by promoting the process of political and social integration before economic integration and, above all, by a different approach to the perception of the single market for european citizens. i believe that all these objectives are contained in the measures contained in these three reports. (the debate was suspended for a few moments)
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am not going to go into the details again. i represent a government force in one of the founding countries of the european union, which is the northern league. it is not about better communication - i heard a colleague talking about a communication ambassador if the activities of the european union are attacked - but about involving the territories. these are the three measures that convince us. there are positive aspects and aspects to be addressed on which we have tabled amendments as a group. the fundamental factor is involvement, because italy is different from finland, it's different from portugal. the important thing is that what is an opportunity should not become an imposition, as some directives have often done in the past. so be careful when you talk about infringements for countries that fail to follow the directives, because if they fail to follow the directives they are obviously not doing so for the sake of not doing so but because probably those directives cannot be uniformly applied to the 27 countries. the single market is our objective. it is not an end but a means, and as such, for small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers, what is important is that the process is first of all concrete, that is to say that there are not only declarations of principle but that action is taken on the basis of those 12 points in practice, and secondly that there is real involvement of governments and territories, because otherwise we risk drawing yet another scaffolding which then the populations and producers do not understand. there is no communication ambassador who cares if a directive or a single market is not suitable for the social and productive fabric which has to implement it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a single market is one of the european commission's objectives in responding to the economic crisis. there are both positive and negative aspects to all three reports. the use of new technologies, electronic commerce and innovation is a shared tool to foster business growth and increase competitiveness. in order to facilitate the creation of a market for europeans, greater coordination of trade activities should be a priority in order to control goods from third countries. the creation of a single market partnership, with respect for the criteria of transparency and greater involvement of regional authorities, can only be an opportunity for economic growth. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. if we are to support the european economy we must stop the relocation of firms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important that we all join our voices today in thanking commissioner barnier for his work and for the extraordinary work of mr harbour. the initiative which the commission has taken, which is the result of many years of work, including that of colleagues who preceded mr barnier, has finally succeeded, for example at this stage, in shedding more light on and giving priority to the question of the single market, which, for contingent reasons but difficult to understand by public opinion, had not, in my view, received sufficient attention within the 2020 programme. i believe that the single market is the european union's great gamble, one that can on the one hand bring us out of a situation of difficulty and crisis and, on the other hand, make us even stronger and more authoritative than the policies being pursued in the rest of the world. but, beyond all that, we must always fight against the resistance of the member states as well, and i believe that the indications made in this report require a joint effort on the part of all. as far as my group is concerned, i shall borrow a phrase used by mr schwab, who i agree with to the end, who said that we are a bit at the end of the sprint. in this final sprint, things are more exciting but also more challenging. i believe that the focus on the standardisation of professional qualifications, the digital single market, the single market for public procurement and attention to smes is what we are asking the commission to do and what we thank commissioner barnier for. i always add my usual phrase: we have to simplify, simplify, simplify.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs and commissioner barnier for his great availability to parliament. we support the idea of an internal market which understands and meets social expectations and the implications of the social dimension. it is not a utopia, it is realism and also modernity. it is this view which makes the market itself stronger, because the economic element alone, in essence the reduction of the market to economism, has shown that this does not solve the problems of growth or cohesion. in short, it is a question of fully implementing the all-european idea of a social market economy in the present. in today's texts, this is what we have. there is recognition of social enterprises, cooperatives and their role, mutuals and foundations, which represent 10% of european enterprises and a large part of our employment. they are real companies, a demonstration of economic pluralism and of enterprise pluralism. they work with capital but not for capital and want to create jobs, welfare, quality and social innovation, and to show that these values must and can be part of the internal market in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, professor mario monti, a man of appreciated liberal culture who has never been questioned, writes in his report on the internal market that a balance must be struck between the market, its rules and the rights of the people who live and work in that market. he says this because he is convinced that social cohesion is a very important factor in competition and because he thinks, as we do, that the dignity of people should never be called into question, either when they are citizens or, of course, when they are workers. that is why the social clause is important, an instrument which is shared by the very large majority of this parliament and which we ask you and president barroso to include in all the legislative acts which will regulate the internal market. only in this way, by making the most of the role and contribution of people, will the market be able to achieve its potential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i agree with the lines laid down in this important communication drawn up by the european commission in response to professor monti's report last may. governance and partnership are two essential aspects of reviving the single market. in fact, if the latter is to become ever more effective and competitive, it needs strong political leadership and high-level leadership. this is also achieved by making the whole european system increasingly democratic. the positions, decisions and acts adopted must increasingly be the result of a highly coordinated work between the various european institutions. the role of parliament in the development of single market legislation can also be further strengthened. the lisbon treaty has already made a major contribution in this direction, i.e. it has established new rules to give parliament greater power, but this alone is not enough. i am thinking in particular of those cases in which parliament expresses a strong and clear position but which diverges from that of the council and the governments of the member states.
in writing. the relaunch of the single market requires that our european policies operate in a more business-friendly climate that aims to promote innovation and growth and a strategic repositioning of the european economy. europe needs strong political leadership to define and implement economic priorities of this magnitude. the new european strategy, which draws inspiration from the guidelines of the 'monti report', has the merit of indicating in concrete terms the measures to be taken to overcome the period of economic crisis by boosting productivity and the labour market. of the 50 proposals put forward by the commission, i would like to mention above all the measures designed to ensure that smes are more competitive, have easier access to credit and have the opportunity to go international, so that they can take advantage of the new investment opportunities offered by the global market. i take this opportunity to remind you once again that smes are the most authentic representatives of the european fabric of production and provide numerous examples of excellence which should be encouraged and supported. the digital agenda, the fight against counterfeiting, the strengthening of electronic commerce and the rationalization of the procurement system are other priority actions that can be widely shared in order to ensure the tangible realisation of economic benefits for the benefit of monetary stability and cohesion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the votes, i would like to take a few minutes to remind this parliament, the council and the european commission that two years ago there was the l'aquila earthquake in which 309 people died and more than 1650 were injured. i shall send a video to all members of the european parliament today, which was filmed on 13 january in l'aquila. i invite all my colleagues to watch it because the citizens of aquila expect a strong response from europe.
thank you, alfano. i myself had mentioned this terrible event during the debate this morning. you were right to mention it in front of the whole house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, another tragedy occurred last night in the mediterranean. immigrants from north africa have died trying to reach italy and europe. there are 130 missing and 20 bodies have already emerged. when we talk about immigration, we must never forget that we are talking about men, women and children, not just numbers. the council and the governments must act. civilized and democratic europe must express its grief and for that reason, mr president, i ask you to invite the house to observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of immigration. (applause) i would like to thank
at the request of mr sassoli, who i believe has interpreted the thoughts of all, we observe a minute's silence in memory of the dead of this night. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to ask how many more minutes of silence we have to have before we have a common european immigration policy. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, my group voted in favour of this report. i take note that the discussion in parliament on the issue of asylum seekers did not have the inflammatory tone frequently used in several eu member states. this is probably due to the fact that, contrary to widespread perceptions, the overall number of people claiming asylum in the west has dropped by more than 40% over the past decade, according to data just released by the united nations. a total of 358 000 asylum applications were made in industrialised countries in 2010, compared with 620 000 applications filed in 2001. the drop is mainly due to push factors in the areas of origin. this means that the picture is much more encouraging than is usually thought.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally wish to congratulate the rapporteur on this report which is truly a significant step forward in community policies, inviting the european commission to submit a proposal for a directive on the procedures to be followed by member states to grant and possibly withdraw international protection. i believe that the events of the last few days between the african and european coasts show how much the 'asylum package' - as it is called - needs to become a truly binding norm. i am thinking in particular of the positive aspects of certain amendments which have been adopted, such as the whole question of the greater guarantees given to children in particular, in the belief that children cannot be detained under any circumstances, which - i would add - is what is happening these days in lampedusa, where children have been treated in exactly the same way as adults, together with adults, in a situation which is often completely inadequate. it would have been important to have had this directive before the events that are happening dramatically in europe and africa. all the issues concerning attention to the most vulnerable people, particularly women, and issues concerning attention to family dynamics and family reunification are also very important. i also congratulate the rapporteur.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell mr costa that perhaps before he expresses his opinion on the treatment of children in lampedusa, he should go to lampedusa. i was there and saw that all the minors were treated according to what are italian and especially international rules. i now come back to the subject which, as has been said by all, is of great relevance. i believe, however, that all member states must be obliged to respect fully the principle of non-refoulement and the right of asylum. it is therefore necessary to start sharing responsibilities, by mobilising the resources of the european refugee fund and asking the european office for strong support in order to make the right of asylum effective, including providing support in terms of training of border staff and also improving european instruments on asylum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was the shadow rapporteur on this dossier and therefore i could only vote in favour, together with my group. i did so because i thought it would be a very useful tool for the development of a sector which will be a driving force for the european economy. industry is moving away from europe, agriculture is suffering from serious shortcomings, and one sector that can offer a perspective of employment, economic development and smart, inclusive and compatible growth is certainly tourism. in this sense, the instrument we have approved today, which allows for more modern collection, processing, treatment and transmission than in the previous situation, will certainly give impetus to this activity. that is why i and the alde group voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely since december 2009 that tourism has been recognised in the treaty and therefore finally has a legal basis for development and support at european level. tourism is a very powerful engine of growth for europe. we have already mentioned that the tourism industry generates more than 5% of the european union's gdp, involves almost two million small and mediumsized enterprises and has an employment rate of over 12%. we need more studies and more comparative statistics, precisely because they are useful for monitoring phenomena, for allowing comparisons between member states, for highlighting the way in which community funds are used and for developing good practices, and for evaluating and developing tourism programmes for the economically disadvantaged.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 325 imposes on the commission and the member states the duty to protect the financial interests of the european union and to combat fraud in areas where this responsibility is shared between the union and the member states. in accordance with article 325 (5), the commission, in cooperation with the member states, shall submit annually to the european parliament and to the council a report on the measures taken to implement this article. i agree that the levels of recovery of unduly paid european funds in the member states should be quantified in greater detail through a specific data collection. another important point, which mr ivan rightly stressed in his report, is the use of improved fraud investigation activities by the member states. in this way we will be able to standardize enforcement action throughout the european union and to check whether similar types of fraud have occurred in more than one country. that is why i have supported this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted three own-initiative reports on the single market act, which is an important growth instrument for the european economy, and of course also for job creation, with results that are direct and concrete for european citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises. there are many proposals put forward by the european commission which actually go in the direction of integrating and liberalising european markets, determining measures to support especially small and mediumsized enterprises, to also affect innovation and the protection of creativity, improving the efficiency and sustainability of networks and infrastructures both tangible and intangible. in this structural framework of support for smes, i hope that some of the obstacles posed by the diversity of national legislation, including tax rules and regimes, which fragment the market and impose high compliance costs on businesses, will also be addressed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the single market is a valuable instrument for boosting the european union's economy, particularly in terms of creating new jobs. the single market act own-initiative reports as a whole constitute the european parliament's contribution to the consultation process launched by the commission with its communication 'towards a single market act towards a highly competitive social market economy 50 proposals to work, do business and trade together more effectively'. i believe that more emphasis should have been placed on the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, on the fight against counterfeiting and piracy and on the development of innovation and competitiveness through the elimination of bureaucratic, administrative and regulatory burdens. however, i welcome the general approach of the report and, in particular, the measures mentioned which are aimed at strengthening electronic commerce and rationalizing the procurement system. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it represents a new step forward in the creation of an integrated and well-functioning european single market. europe is now one of the world's leading economies, but its potential is still enormous, especially in terms of economic growth and employment. small and mediumsized enterprises are the real engine and the main actors of the current economic recovery. europe must provide them with greater protection by facilitating their access to credit, reducing red tape and promoting the development of electronic commerce. only then will we be able to create a social economy based on growth, competitiveness and sustainability. to equip the european union with a dynamic, efficient and innovative single market in today's globalised world means to make it the undisputed protagonist of the global economic scene.
in writing. - i welcome the approval today of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, romania and croatia in response to the floods that occurred last year. the european parliament and the council have disagreed on the technical procedure for obtaining the eur 182.4 million needed to compensate the member states for the damage suffered, but europe is once again showing its solidarity with its citizens. i am confident that the surplus from the 2010 budget will be used to cover the 'negative reserve' used to raise the necessary funds. the reserve is a 'book' instrument which must be used in case of emergencies which may arise during the current financial year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is necessary to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in support of the countries that suffered damage as a result of the floods that occurred in 2010 in a large part of central and eastern europe. countries such as poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania have had to bear enormous costs as a result of the heavy rains during this period, which caused extensive damage to their infrastructure. poland alone, for example, suffered two consecutive floods of its main rivers in may and june 2010, causing severe damage to the agricultural sector, transport networks and cultural heritage sites, totalling almost eur 3 billion in damage. the priority now is to get the regions most affected by the tragic events of last year back on their feet, enabling them to get their production systems back on track without further delay.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership with the union of the comoros is intended to highlight the role to be played by the european parliament in the procedure for the revision of the agreement. europe has always pursued the conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements and partnership relations have been in force with the union of the comoros in this field since 1988. the new protocol aims to define the fishing opportunities to be offered to union vessels, to provide for a sustainable policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to increase investment in small-scale fisheries and to optimise their activity. the draft council decision ensures that both partners, europe and the union of the comoros, benefit from the re-proposal of the agreement, but since parliament has acquired a specific role in the implementation of the agreements following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it seems inevitable to identify measures involving parliament at every stage, up to the final approval of the agreement.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the european community and third countries has always been a common practice of the common fisheries policy and therefore a central element of its external dimension. agreements with african and pacific countries provide that a substantial share of the eu's financial contribution is earmarked for supporting national fisheries policies based on the principles of sustainability and good management of fisheries resources. bilateral fisheries relations between the european community and the union of the comoros date back to 1988. the resolution adopted today stresses that greater information and control by the european parliament during all stages of the negotiation process would strengthen the partnership elements and have a positive impact on the development of the fisheries sector. the european parliament and the council should be on an equal footing, both as regards the right to be fully and immediately informed and as regards monitoring and evaluating the implementation of international fisheries agreements and negotiating the revision thereof.
in writing. − the liberalisation agreement between the eu and morocco must be a signal for the development, stability and economic recovery of the entire north african region. the union cannot and must not lose the opportunity to play a leading role in a renewed trade policy, capable of helping those countries which have been overwhelmed by political and social crises with dramatic consequences for their national economies and, as a result, for our investments in those territories. with today's vote on the creation of a standard, applicable and effective dispute settlement mechanism, we have therefore an additional guarantee to support european investment in morocco, investment which is fundamental to the economic well-being of the entire region and which covers almost all sectors. today's vote also underlines the union's will to avoid negative economic effects on final consumers on both sides of the mediterranean through protectionist policy choices which continue to take account of particular interests, by postponing the ratification of agreements which are essential to rebalance and balance the economic choices of an area which is beginning to be of interest to our commercial competitors such as china and the countries of the middle east.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the dispute settlement mechanism proposed by mr susta. i agree that the proper application of a standard dispute settlement mechanism could be a further step towards the establishment and proper functioning of the euro-mediterranean free trade agreement. to date, disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements have been resolved, where possible, only through diplomatic relations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the euro. in the light of what is happening in some countries in north africa, there is no doubt that the path towards economic and political stability in those territories also passes through the proper functioning of free trade agreements in the mediterranean.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that the european union should provide for an appropriate mechanism for settling disputes arising from the implementation of the euro-mediterranean agreements. in 2006, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the mediterranean partners and it was not until 2009 that the agreement was signed. the creation of a pre-defined dispute resolution mechanism should finally introduce simplified and effective appeal procedures within precise time limits. i share the rapporteur's view that updating the euromed free trade agreements is essential in order to contribute to economic and political stability in this region and to consolidate a single area of peace and development. the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the most recent partnership agreements concluded by the european union and the wto dispute settlement framework. at a time when foreign direct investment is crucial to the economic well-being of european member states, i hope that an effective and functioning dispute settlement mechanism will also serve to resolve disputes in this area.
in writing. − in 2010, the commission presented to the council a proposal on the rules for importing fishery products into the eu, using article 203 tfeu as the legal basis for its work. i agree with the interpretation that this legislative activity should be regulated on the basis of article 43 in conjunction with article 204, thus allowing amendments to the regulation to be made through the ordinary legislative procedure. in 2007 alone, almost 87% of fishery products exported from greenland were destined for the eu. the commission and the council cannot therefore be the only ones to lay down general rules for trade and imports of fishery products from greenland, because this is contrary to the provisions of the lisbon treaty itself. i therefore believe that the european parliament must make its voice heard in such an important area.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the trade relations between the eu and greenland have been of considerable consistency for many years. in fact, as early as 2007, greenland exported 82% of its fishery products, of which 87% went to the european market. we can therefore say that this represents an important resource for greenland, to be added to what europe provides in terms of financial support in exchange for maintaining its fishing rights in greenland waters. on 26 april 2010, the european parliament requested the legal affairs committee to deliver an opinion on the legal basis on which the greenland agreements could be implemented. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has recently expressed its support for parliament and confirmed that the legal basis for the agreements is, as claimed, to be found in articles 43 (2) and 204 tfeu.
in writing. − a special agreement is currently in force between the european union and greenland, whereby the european union maintains its fishing rights in greenland's waters, in exchange for financial support. greenland, a former danish colony, achieved full independence in 1985, and continues to be associated with the european union as one of the overseas countries and territories. it is sufficient to consider that in 2007 alone, fishery products exported by greenland accounted for 82% of its total exports, of which approximately 87% was destined for the eu. on 26 april 2010, the committee on fisheries and the legal service of the european parliament expressed serious doubts about the legal basis chosen by the commission for the conclusion of the agreement. i hope that the agreement voted on will result in the extension of the application of the internal european rules on trade in fishery products to those from greenland. at the same time, european standards on animal health and food safety in the fisheries sector must be respected at all times.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive submitted to parliament for its opinion on the possible introduction of a uniform procedure for the 27 member states of the union in the recognition of the right of asylum is an important step forward, but the sensitivity of the subject requires careful and thorough reflection. finally, to ensure that the member states approximate their legislation in accordance with the commitments they have made under the stockholm treaty, by simplifying and speeding up the procedural mechanisms. the commission also intends to provide a high degree of protection for asylum seekers, ensuring a rapid first instance verdict, free legal aid and the possibility of residing in the country until a final judgment is rendered. i am not opposed to this proposal for a directive, although i have good intentions, because it is not very precise in terms of certain technical and procedural aspects and because it is ambiguous in terms of certain definitions. the directive, when worded in this way, would be open to abuse by applicants. for these reasons i have decided not to support this version of the text which i do not think is entirely acceptable.
in writing. - after years of heated debate and following the lisbon treaty, the legal affairs committee has submitted to the european parliament the first draft of a common asylum procedure between member states. the aim is to establish by 2012 a common area of protection and solidarity based on harmonisation between member states on asylum, despite the persistent divergences between national provisions. in fact, such national disparities are incompatible with a common european asylum system and constitute an obstacle to its implementation. in particular, the new legislation provides that asylum seekers should be treated equally throughout europe, regardless of the member state in which the application is lodged. progressive improvement and effective harmonisation of asylum procedures and guarantees should be pursued with a view to establishing a common european system. i hope that in this review context an accessible, fair and effective procedure will be ensured, in the interests of both asylum seekers and the member states' guarantee systems.
in writing. - we have strongly opposed parliament's directive on the single asylum procedure because, if implemented, it would effectively take away the sovereignty of the member states. we believe it is unacceptable to prevent the member states from rejecting people they do not want, and even to guarantee asylum seekers a high level of treatment that is equivalent throughout the european union to that of european families who do not even have the right to a home. asylum seekers are also entitled to free procedural and legal advice, legal assistance and representation. it is specified that ngos may also be active in providing services for access to information on procedures for obtaining protection, and provide guidance and legal advice to asylum seekers, which should also be provided at border crossing points or in reception centres. it should be noted that all these benefits from european taxpayers will not be granted only to refugees but to all asylum seekers and therefore to any illegal or irregular immigrant who applies for them.
in writing. - the simpson report and the regulation to which it refers propose to establish a common framework for the collection and dissemination of european statistics on tourism by means of the collection and compilation by the individual member states of harmonised statistics on tourism demand and supply in the form of aggregated tables which will then be transmitted to the european commission (eurostat) by computer. although the rapporteur's work is commendable, i cannot vote for the report because it does not change the amount of work and data collection required by the regulation. the tables proposed by the rules of procedure are rather complex and the collection of so much information is, in my view, an excessive burden. i cannot therefore support the interference and bureaucratic burden that such a regulation would create.
in writing. - we cannot deny that tourism has changed radically in the last decade, thanks in part to technological progress. the legislation on the collection of data and statistics therefore needs to be updated. in this respect, i agree with the commission's proposal to introduce a new regulation which would repeal certain articles which are now obsolete. at the same time, however, i am in favour of the amendments made to the regulation by parliament, particularly as regards the need to introduce harmonised statistics which also take account of the purely social aspects of tourism and the opposition to the adoption of delegated acts by the commission on essential matters for an indefinite period. i also think it is a serious mistake that the commission has not considered the introduction of satellite accounts of tourism (sta), as this type of data would allow a more complete picture of the impact of tourism on the labour market and the economy. finally, i find the proposal to introduce on a voluntary basis the collection of statistics on the tourist habits of disabled people and the consequent implementation of pilot projects to improve the participation of disabled people in tourism extremely interesting.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the proposal for a regulation on european statistics on tourism, which has been put to the vote in this house, is of particular interest and great utility. the tourism industry is a major industry in europe and of great importance in the community, as it plays an important role in the economy of the individual member states. the tourism industry still has significant potential in terms of employment and it is therefore useful to implement measures aimed at promoting better organization, which will allow its full potential to be expressed. the establishment of a common framework for the collection and compilation of comparable and comprehensive european tourism statistics can only help to improve the situation. knowing consumer demand will enable businesses and public bodies to respond to the needs of the sector, improving their capacity and competitiveness. i supported the proposal for a regulation because i am convinced that uniform, transparent, reliable and objective statistics at european level are an effective way of supporting this large sector, which is of considerable importance also for my own country.
in writing. - the simpson report on european statistics on tourism is a text which will replace the directive on tourism which is now 15 years old. the european system has the right to adapt to the times and to reform its own regulations, especially in view of the importance and the continuing evolution of the tourism sector in europe over the last decade, which is why i voted in favour of the report. the new needs in the sector, which require increasingly detailed, up-to-date and comparable data, make updating the basic tourism statistics necessary. access to facilities, disability services and costs for basic necessities are the main data for which an up-to-date database is needed, which can be consulted by users.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, tourism is an important economic activity in the eu. in this context, statistics are useful for monitoring specific tourism policies and are useful in the context of regional policy and sustainable development. within the eu, the system of tourism statistics is governed by directive 95/57/ec. however, following the entry into force of the above-mentioned directive, the tourism industry and tourist demand have changed considerably. the commission has therefore drawn up a new proposal for a regulation which aims to define a policy framework for tourism by making use of the powers introduced by the lisbon treaty. the aim is to update and optimise the regulatory framework for european tourism statistics to take account of the latest trends in this field. in this regard, it is necessary to strengthen the tourism sector through coordinated action at union level and to establish a common framework for the systematic production of statistics by the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised european statistics on supply and demand in the sector. on the basis of the foregoing considerations, i shall vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because tourism is an important economic activity for the eu, with a high potential in terms of contributing to job creation and growth. tourism plays a key role in the socioeconomic integration of rural areas, which are often peripheral and underdeveloped. in this context, statistics are not only useful for monitoring specific tourism policies, but also in the broader context of regional policy and sustainable development. the document also addresses the main challenges facing the sector, such as increased global competition, demographic trends, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist movements and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies by customers.
in writing. - i voted against the report because the regulation proposed by the commission would require monthly data collection to measure the seasonal influences and the economic and social aspects of the sector, which is run mainly by small and mediumsized enterprises. this strategy is aimed at a thorough knowledge of the dynamics, characteristics and volume of tourism, but it seems to us to be too demanding, bureaucratic and costly. the commission also requests delegated powers and therefore the possibility of amending essential elements of the proposal. the monthly tables proposed by this regulation are complex and require the collection of an excessive amount of information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report amending regulation (ec) no 861/2006. in may 2006, the council approved this important instrument for financing fisheries. however, a review of that regulation is now necessary in order to ensure consistency between all elements of the legislative framework. keeping up with the times also means using new technologies that can provide a better service with less expenditure of economic resources. in order to better respond to real needs, it was therefore considered appropriate to clarify certain articles of the regulation and to specify the scope of certain measures financed. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that fisheries management must be based on up-to-date and rigorous scientific knowledge of the state of resources and that greater controls must be introduced to make fishing more sustainable.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 861/2006 establishing a financial instrument for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the field of the law of the sea is an important financial instrument which protects fishing activities. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the current version of the regulation needs to be amended to bring the rules contained in it into line with the treaty of lisbon. the revision has made it possible to improve the text, so that it can respond more adequately and effectively to the needs of the sector. the increasing importance of aquaculture justifies the introduction of provisions on the collection, management and use of environmental, socioeconomic and health data to contribute to its sustainability. the individual states also have a key role to play in ensuring compliance with the rules and monitoring of water by using new technologies in the light of scientific developments.
in writing. the union's financial action for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea offers the economic possibility for the implementation of the common fisheries policy through targeted funding for those areas which need development and coordination in the field of the law of the sea, which is why i voted in favour of mr ferreira's report. the amendment of the regulation will help to make the common policy effective and will mobilise funds for fisheries in relation to data collection, international relations, technical and scientific fields.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 861/2006, establishing a community financial action for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the field of the law of the sea, is an important eu funding instrument for fisheries activities. the document is also one of the two main instruments used to put the common fisheries policy into practice. it provides for financing in the following areas: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the resolution adopted today recognises the importance of fisheries management based on up-to-date and rigorous scientific knowledge of the state of the stocks. the document recognises the growing importance of aquaculture, which generates sound prospects for the development of this and related activities, and which justifies the introduction of the possibility of applying to this sector also the provisions on the collection, management and use of environmental data, as well as socioeconomic data, thus allowing environmental and health control and monitoring of the sector which will contribute to its sustainability.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr ferreira's report on improving the management of financial instruments for fisheries, which regulate the financing of a whole range of activities, including those typically concerned with monitoring fishing activities. i therefore believe that the general agreement between the council and the european parliament on the text represents a good compromise on the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea.
in writing. − the failure to agree on the draft legislation to simplify and clarify community rules on the conservation of fishery resources in 2008 led to the adoption of a regulation establishing a set of transitional measures initially planned for the period from 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. the legislative proposal voted today aims to extend the transitional arrangements for a further 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013, with the aim of defining a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, on which the commission will present a proposal in the course of 2011. the european parliament also adopted resolution a6-0206/2009 on the proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures in the atlantic ocean and the north sea, which stresses the importance of an appropriate division of competences between the council, parliament and the commission. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the community's financial interests against fraud and other irregularities is a very important one.
in writing. the report adopted today aims to promote sound management of resources with a view to reducing public expenditure. in the context of the well-known difficulties facing the public finances of the member states, it is necessary to reduce costs by keeping their increase below the current rate of inflation. the reduction in the overall amount should therefore be welcomed. the additional resources needed to meet the needs of the lisbon treaty and future enlargement should be identified through the budgetary adjustment instruments at a later stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr fernandes' own-initiative report on the forecast of revenue and expenditure for 2012. i fully agree with the objectives set out in the text adopted, namely strict management of human resources before new recruitment, greater security within the european parliament, a digital strategy for social networks and the implementation of a wi-fi service, and a building strategy to manage expenditure on parliament's buildings more prudently.
in writing. - mr president, i support the motion for a resolution on health claims on foodstuffs for children. the health of the youngest needs to be better protected from all those sometimes misleading food claims which are put on products and which lead people to buy them simply because they claim to have a beneficial nutritional or physiological effect. it is necessary to ensure that the consumer is assured of the veracity of the claims and that the products placed on the market are safe and adequately labelled, in order to give consumers the information they need to make informed choices and to create a level playing field in the food industry. currently, in some member states, there is a wide range of claims used in food labelling and advertising which refer to substances for which the beneficial effect has not yet been demonstrated or for which there is insufficient scientific consensus at national level. therefore, it is necessary to ensure that substances for which a claim of benefit is provided are subject to scientific testing and studies by the european food safety authority (efsa).
in writing. - unfortunately, we have missed an important opportunity today to reiterate that breastfeeding should not be discouraged in any way, let alone with a nutritional profile that should give certain information. there is no consensus scientific evidence to support any benefits for the development of vision from the addition of dha to infant formulae. i supported the resolution as it was perfectly in line with the spirit of the international code on the marketing of milk substitutes drawn up by the world health organisation. the purpose of the code is, inter alia, to ensure that there is no advertising or other form of promotion to the public of breast milk substitutes. breast-feeding is recognized as having positive effects on the health of both the child and the mother by reducing the risk of breast cancer. moreover, recent research reported by unicef, as well as by the italian society of prenatal medicine, points out that newborn deaths could be reduced by 22 percent if babies were breast-fed. i would have preferred to see all the energy put into promoting artificial milk in support of mothers who would gladly breast-feed their children if they received the necessary support.
in writing. - public health and food safety seem to me to be the solid cornerstones on which human society develops. when these requirements are met and guaranteed, health risks are reduced and population growth is controlled to a safe level. these were the criteria that allowed the union to benefit from the regulation of 20 december 2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods. it is the principles laid down in that regulation which still guarantee a close link between scientific data evaluated and tested and authorizations for the use of certain foodstuffs. the commission's draft regulation we are discussing today does not, however, offer all the guarantees required, and the normal precautionary principle, in the absence of the necessary scientific requirements and to avoid misleading nutrition and health claims, leads us to refuse to adopt it. the dha acid contained in breast milk fulfils the function that science has demonstrated, whereas the synthetic dha acid is not compatible with the objective and content of that regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 at present. health is not to be trifled with, and children's health even less so. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's view.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against the resolution on the refusal to indicate the presence of dha in infant formula because i think it is right to point out the reasons why dha is added. i would like to remind you that dha is an omega-3 fatty acid found in breast milk and that it has positive effects on improving the visual abilities of the baby. i would remind you that the european food safety authority (efsa) has given a favourable opinion on the need to give a broad indication of the presence of this substance. i didn't appreciate the many emails we received, which made it seem like we wanted to favor breastfeeding over breastfeeding. adequate information on substances added to food is always necessary, especially if intended for children.
in writing. − docosahexaenoic acid, known as dha, is a component of breast milk and numerous scientific studies show that it plays a positive role in the development of the visual system of newborns. i believe that a specific indication on products enriched with this ingredient, such as artificial milk, will enable the consumer to make a more informed choice when buying. i therefore do not believe that the fears of those who claim that such a claim would encourage mothers to give up breastfeeding and to prefer this type of product are well founded. breast milk contains essential and irreplaceable substances and active ingredients for newborns, but unfortunately not all women have access to them. i therefore voted against this resolution because to prevent correct information is to deprive mothers of an additional tool which, since they cannot breastfeed their children directly, they are forced to resort to the use of these products.
in writing. − according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, foreign direct investment is an area of the union's exclusive competence. this is a challenge that must be met at all costs, especially in terms of defining a european investment policy that meets the needs of investors and beneficiary states and is able, at the same time, to respect the objectives of the eu's external action. the eu's many investment agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral, must ensure investor protection in all appropriate venues. future eu policy will need to promote sustainable and environmentally friendly investments that promote good working conditions in enterprises affected by foreign investment. each investment agreement will have to be accompanied by a set of appropriate social and environmental standards as a form of additional guarantee.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 325 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union imposes on the european commission and the member states the obligation to protect the eu's financial interests and to combat fraud in areas where the responsibility is shared between the union and the member states. i believe that, in general, the european commission's report on 'protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud annual report 2009' does not provide information on the estimated level of fraud and irregularities in individual member states, but rather focuses on the level of reporting. the results, in my view, cannot be regarded as empirical evidence of the level of fraud and irregularity, precisely because it is not possible to have a global picture of the actual situation of fraud and irregularity in the member states. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that the most appropriate approach is to base the conclusions on the situation of the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud on the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget, which is the most reliable source of information, whereas the commission's report and olaf's report mainly provide information on specific cases.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my colleague on his work. the work reveals, also through an olaf overview, fraud irregularities within the european union. the commission's work is not exhaustive, however, in that it does not report the fraud data of individual member states, as the honourable member has pointed out. that is why i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the fight against fraud in the community is going in the right direction, emphasizing the need for greater clarity on this subject and stressing the absolute need to remain vigilant. italy is unfortunately among the countries most affected. the vast majority of these incidents occur in the regions of southern italy and concern the misappropriation or misuse of funds intended for the development of these areas. the purpose of these community funds is to promote the growth and development of the most disadvantaged areas. if, however, these fraudulent incidents occur precisely where investment is most needed, then one can well understand how the damage is twofold. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the report under consideration emphasizes these aspects and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud because it is an issue of interest to all the member states, on which all must confront each other in order to coordinate in the best possible way against speculation or misuse of national and/or community resources. the text lists a number of statistics on fraud, irregularities and various inconsistencies found in the member states and in the european institutions themselves. the data serve as a warning to those who protect the financial interests of the union and seek to provide reliable and detailed information to exhaustively show the international situation on irregularities and fraud in order to protect the public interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there is too often a lack of reliable information on irregularities and fraud in eu spending in the member states. in addition, there is too often no real control over the collection of customs duties and the recovery of funds wrongly spent. it is important now to take concrete measures to distinguish clearly between irregularity and fraud, as fraud is a criminal offence, whereas irregularity is the failure to comply with a rule and can even be unintentional. it is necessary to have a breakdown of these for each individual member state so that disciplinary action can be taken against individual countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr ivan on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud in areas where the responsibility is shared between the union and the member states. i believe that, especially in the light of recent events, it is important to draw attention to this problem and to ensure that there is a constant effort to ensure that anti-fraud activities are homogeneous and uniform throughout the eu.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'political parties at european level help to form a european political consciousness and to express the will of the citizens of the union'. in these words, article 10 (4) of the treaty on european union defines the role of political parties at european level. despite the role assigned to it by the lisbon treaty, they do not always interpret it in the best possible way. i believe that european political parties can and must make a more significant contribution to the political and social life of europe by arousing public interest in the internal affairs of the union. in the light of these considerations, it is essential that political parties at european level be granted a single and uniform legal, political and fiscal status which also allows for genuine organisational convergence. i believe that the statute on political parties at european level can open the way not only to the involvement of the population but also to the creation of a genuine transnational party system, which is essential to guarantee greater democracy in europe.
in writing. − the democratic system on which the european union is based places the citizen at the centre as the reference point around which all decisions revolve. the citizens are represented by the political parties, which, in order to guarantee the will of their voters, must have common rules on transparency and uniformity, which is why i voted in favour of the application of the regulation on the statute and funding of political parties at european level. a community regulation of this scale provides a means of obtaining in-depth information on european political parties, protects against internal economic corruption and stimulates the interest of citizens by facilitating their participation in the political life of the european union.
in writing. − the development of a reform package for political parties at european level as a tool to mobilise the democratic energies of individuals and citizens' organisations is not a simple task. the creation of a secure and transparent environment for the functioning and financing of political parties at european level is, however, a profoundly democratic act. it is necessary to support the creation of a european space for the action of political parties that puts citizens at the centre of the european union and helps them in their daily lives. the adoption of specific standards makes it possible to achieve this objective and brings a double benefit. on the one hand, it provides timely, rapid and public information on the formation of political parties at european level and on their common european status. in this way, citizens know that participation in a political party at european level means being covered by european union law and that political parties have not only rights but also duties. on the other hand, the european statute of political parties at european level paves the way for the creation of a transnational party system. the adoption of this resolution is a first and indispensable step towards greater participation by citizens in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. governance and partnership are two essential aspects of reviving the single market. in particular, the role of the european parliament in the development of single market legislation can be further strengthened. the lisbon treaty has already made a major contribution to this, but it is not enough. i am thinking in particular of those cases in which parliament expresses a strong and clear position, but which diverges from that of the council and the governments of the member states. i am thinking, for example, of the longstanding question of the indication of the origin of products, the so-called 'made in', particularly in the textile regulation which i am personally following. the fact that parliament has the power to block the adoption of an act if it does not agree with the council is sometimes not enough. they must change the mindset and attitude of all the actors involved. we must all work together to make europe more democratic.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report presented to us by our colleague from the epp certainly has aspects which our group shares, such as the need for greater involvement of the regions and also greater transparency. but that is not enough to win my vote in favour, since there are many more who disagree with me. for example, the belief that the commission should have an even more important role, the too many references to the subject of the infringement procedure and the mandate to the president of the commission to coordinate the relaunch of the single market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report i have supported contains many of the principles which i personally regard as fundamental to the european union. i am referring in general terms to the kind of dialogue that will necessarily have to be established as soon as possible between citizens and the institutions at various levels. this aspect has particular and varied connotations in relation to the lives of all of us european citizens, but it is much more important when we consider the creation of a single market aimed at revitalizing the entire european economy and improving communication between the legislative bodies and the direct beneficiaries. i believe that this is a priority on the road to common growth. we must move in this direction by looking at new forms of governance, by monitoring various types of procedures, but at the same time simplifying the citizen's approach to public administration.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report on governance and partnership in the single market because it seems to me too unbalanced. in other words, some of the problems that exist are not being assessed with the attention that they should be. we cannot believe that the single market is the solution to all the problems of europe, as is shown in some parts of this report. i think it is necessary to take due account of certain prerogatives and peculiarities of the various member states. not all countries are the same and a measure which may be useful in one member state may cause very serious damage in another. in addition, the sanction mechanism for infringements must also be carefully assessed, as there is a risk that already critical situations will be aggravated by further damaging measures. we are still well aware of all the problems which the famous 'services directive' has caused and continues to cause, at least in italy, for example in the travel trade and the seaside resort sector. i would not like to see these problems recurring more and more in the future.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is essential for the european union to complete the single market through the active support of the member states and all the parties concerned. the active participation of stakeholders can only be achieved by a change in the current single market policy, which ensures leadership and commitment to its improvement. i fully agree with the rapporteur that it is not enough to strengthen the council's position as the leading institution in implementing the single market. a more focused approach is needed in the choice of legislative instruments which, alongside the institution, give the president of the european council the mandate to coordinate the relaunch of the single market in close cooperation with the president of the commission. in fact, we need to ensure high-level political guidance and invite the member states to set their priorities and agendas in line with the priorities of the single market in order to really take charge of its implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs kalniete's report. it is important to focus on the relaunch of the single market, with an emphasis on actions with high potential for growth and job creation and capable of delivering tangible and immediately perceptible results for european citizens. i also believe that it is right to focus on legislative simplification to make the eu internal market more accessible to small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, to take renewed community action to liberalize regulated professions and mutual recognition of qualifications.
in writing. − in 2010, the commission adopted a proposal to renew european citizens' confidence in the single market with the aim of strengthening 'a highly competitive social market economy, aimed at full employment and social progress'. in my view, the efforts to achieve the single market have placed a high priority on the market and its organisation, and neglected the concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers. in particular, a single energy market is essential to encourage european competitiveness by reducing external dependence and making energy prices more affordable. legislative initiatives in the field of energy should be implemented in close coordination between the commission, the member states and the productive sectors concerned. transparency of bank charges, real costs and conditions for mortgage loans is also a key element both in protecting consumers and investors and in ensuring access to credit for citizens and small businesses. finally, i believe that a real deepening of the single market for the benefit of citizens, businesses and european competitiveness is based on the ability to develop projects, financed at eu level, in infrastructure. i therefore encourage the commission to come forward with legislative proposals in this area.
in writing. − the completion of the single market is a valuable tool for boosting the european economy, particularly in terms of job creation. the reports on this subject, which we have approved today in this house, represent, in my view, an important step towards an integrated and functioning single market. the commission has put forward 50 proposals to make working, undertaking and trading together more appropriate. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to guarantee effective economic freedom, but at the same time to protect the right to work, the full implementation of the principle of equal pay and the free movement of workers (i.e. also the full recognition of professions within the member states). i therefore agree with the priorities set out by the rapporteur, such as strengthening european market surveillance, drawing up an action plan against piracy and counterfeiting and developing a communication policy to highlight the activities promoted by the eu.
in writing. - i agree with this report. the creation of a single market has always been one of the main objectives of the european integration process and, now more than ever, there is a need to strengthen it through concrete measures aimed at addressing three crucial aspects. the european single market needs to be strengthened to make it highly efficient and competitive and it needs to be revitalised as part of the union's policies to combat the effects of the financial crisis. i fully agree with the proposals put forward by the european parliament on strengthening consumer and business confidence. the first priority in implementing this project is to adopt urgent measures to promote the mobility of citizens, to open up the market to european workers and to promote full employment. it is no longer possible to develop a single market without greater involvement of the citizen. i am thinking, for example, of improving access to banking and mortgage services to protect investors, consumers and financial institutions, or of solving the outstanding issues of free movement of workers, such as the mutual recognition of professional qualifications.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in his report our portuguese colleague has introduced some very welcome elements, such as the need to achieve a single market which is favourable to consumer rights and, above all, the inclusion of customs controls for goods from third countries as one of the priorities. in addition to these positive aspects, there are, however, significant points of divergence on how member states should adopt directives and on too many references to a social type of entrepreneurship. i shall therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i am firmly convinced that the existence of a single market is the most significant achievement of a strong and cohesive europe. promoting social economy enterprises, ensuring the free mobility of european citizens, promoting cutting-edge banking services accessible to all are just some of the focal points on which we need to concentrate ideas, resources and projects. with regard to the first point in particular, i very much welcome the invitation to the commission to publish a green paper on the recognition of professional qualifications in the various member states of the eu. this is an important step which will make the role of training even more tangible in an increasingly open european context.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the single market for europeans because i believe that europe must have common rules which meet the needs of its citizens and bridge the gaps and the disparities in the internal market. in the wake of the economic crisis, europe needs a market where workers and consumers are at the centre of policy. the text on the single market for europeans therefore calls for greater coordination between the european institutions, the member states and businesses in order to achieve a stronger policy, programmed by the european parliament, able to sum up the needs of the european market.
in writing. − the full realisation of the single market is the decisive step towards enabling the european union to achieve its full potential in terms of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. the harmonization of national laws is therefore necessary to promote the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. a prosperous and dynamic internal market is born of our ability to propose policies that support growth, jobs and innovation. with today's vote, the european parliament is once again demonstrating that citizens must be at the heart of the relaunch of the single market, as key players in the creation of virtuous circles of growth and innovation. the completion of the single market policy is closely linked to integration with other policies such as competition, industry, energy and transport.
in writing. − the european union is one of the world's leading economies, with small and medium-sized enterprises as its driving force. the eu must pay particular attention to smes, which have been the hardest hit by the economic crisis, not least because they have the greatest potential for growth and employment. it goes without saying that european efforts must be directed towards encouraging sustainable economic growth. i voted in favour of this report because it has the merit of identifying the right priorities for building a stronger single market, better able to meet the needs of eu businesses and to create higher growth rates. i therefore share the guidelines set out in this document, which in my view can make a real contribution to the transformation of the single market into an innovative, business-friendly environment based on a digital economy and the effective free movement of services. in this context, the need to encourage electronic commerce, which can facilitate cross-border trade, the coordination of tax policies and greater rationalization of cross-border public procurement, where european smes are lagging behind, is shared.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the measures described in this report are essential for the creation of a functioning single market in which there is healthy and profitable competition. i strongly agree with the need to create a digital single market, because the lack of adequate rules affects the performance of the european market in a significant way, especially in recent times, given the technological advancement of other countries that are economically our competitors. it is necessary to consider the enormous potential of electronic commerce, especially in terms of the growth of cross-border trade and also, as i have already said, the consequent increase in competitiveness that it would bring to the market. i also agree with the need to act on two other fronts, the services front and the sme front. it is essential to implement the services directive properly and to reform the regulatory framework on standardisation so that it also covers services. we are also waiting for the european commission's legislative proposal shortly. finally, as i have said in many other debates, we must find new incentives and greater support for small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of our market and the creators of so many jobs.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of the objectives of the 2020 strategy requires europe to create the conditions most favourable to growth and innovation through investment and decisive action on the european market. europe must support growth and promote effective strategies within the internal market aimed at increasing competitiveness, innovation and research. the commission will have to ensure that a package is put in place to achieve these objectives, through actions aimed at improving the promotion of the competitiveness of the internal market. strengthening the economic governance of the european union is therefore an important step forward in enabling companies in the internal market to make the most of the benefits offered by the single market. the creation of european bonds for financing projects, of a patent valid throughout europe, are some of the points which led me to support the resolution. the single market is an important objective to be achieved, but while paying attention to the disparities between the conditions of the various member states, the union's task must be to reduce these disparities so that all european businesses can benefit from them.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has mobilized the eu to search for new rules and systems to ensure balance and growth; the report by mario monti set the stage for the single european act. the main objective is to ensure growth and development, but also security and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, investors and consumers and for all market players who will need to be facilitated in their commercial functions. my vote in favour is not only a willingness to support the text but also a real commitment to the citizens to improve regulations and guarantee equal opportunities for investment and consumption in a system that is constantly growing for both the public and the private sector.
in writing. the three european parliament reports in response to the commission's single market act address issues of importance to european industry and its small and medium-sized enterprises. the simplification of legislation and bureaucracy, the fight against counterfeiting, the importance of innovation and easy access to credit are the necessary measures from europe that our companies expect in order to be competitive again on international markets. on the other hand, the real key to the recovery and completion of the european single market lies in the achievement of a homogeneous tax policy within the union. the tax levy is the oxygen that european smes need for a boost that goes beyond the initial incentive and leads them towards consolidation and growth. the lack of tax harmonisation in europe creates imbalances between the various territories of the union, such as the north-east of italy and slovenia, which compete on the level of taxation as well as on the level of development of their respective economies.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not enthusiastic about the three reports on the internal market because they all include elements with which we can agree, but also others with which we disagree. in this case, however, despite the fact that i find some points of disagreement in the report of my colleague from the alde group - such as the measures which, in my view, favour large companies rather than small ones - i shall abstain on the important points, such as the emphasis on the innovation factor in order to promote growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i think we should all express our condolences to the victims of the great disaster that has struck japan. the situation is indeed worrying, but i believe that the task of politics is not to make choices in a panic, but to try to remain rational and to face reality correctly. i think that, in view of this, two important considerations should be made. the first is that the sky is one and the earth is divided by borders that have nothing to do with these issues on our agenda and the second is that we must always aim at sustainable development that does not have just one component. this sustainable development has three components that must be brought together, namely the economic, environmental and social. if we can make that effort, i think we're going in the right direction. i believe that the resolution that has been tabled, which i fully support and which has also seen a very broad consensus, comes at the right time to take responsibility for the issue of security, for what should be a check-up of the present situation, and to look to the future. how to look to the future? by meeting the parameters we have committed ourselves to and, above all, by moving towards those decisions on efficiency and renewal, which must always be taken in the light of research culture and innovation, including iter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the news about fukushima is becoming increasingly worrying. the safety limits have been exceeded by far and we do not know what will happen in the near future. clear and transparent communication was lacking. we must immediately carry out stress tests on existing power stations and if the results raise doubts we must have the courage to ask for their immediate closure. we must introduce higher international safety standards and not think about building new power stations. we must be prepared for a gradual phase-out of this type of energy, whose accidents cause irreparable damage to the environment and human health. careful thinking is required in the formulation of future energy policies. it is urgent to develop policies aimed at energy saving and efficiency and to increase investment in research into new technologies and renewable energy sources. finally, a debate involving citizens and local authorities must be opened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the honourable member whether the thousands of deaths are not a fact on which we can think and reflect for a long time, since you have just said that we have no evidence to suggest that nuclear power is a dangerous source. since we have thousands of fresh deaths in japan, i wanted to ask you if that's not a fact that can suffice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, matches are won by a double-header, so we are waiting for the return match between inter and schalke 04 to see who will pass the baton, and i agree with you that raul is a great footballer. what is happening in syria, yemen and bahrain is not unlike what is happening in other parts of the world. while economic reasons are generally behind these upheavals, there is a deep desire for freedom everywhere. facebook and the internet have broken the isolation of many, too many, fake democracies that have long been harbored in many regions of the world. there is a new protagonism, a new idea of politics that reflects the dreams of many young people. there is a desire for citizenship, especially in the youth world where the same is more aware and educated. the release of dissident suhayr al-atassi in recent days is a signal, albeit a timid one, in the direction of the formation of freedom of thought and political orientation. the same vibrations are in yemen, where the protest against president saleh is growing, and in bahrain as well. we must act forcefully to remove this violence. the process of democratization must be supported, we cannot afford to be late again. what is happening in the mediterranean is certainly a very difficult signal to understand, and that is why europe must strike a blow and must do so with that solidarity of intervention which should probably help at this time the regions, for example, which are exposed to greater migratory pressure in the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to bahrain. this small country is strategically located for the balance of the gulf and its energy supply. the presence of a major refinery operating on saudi crude is well known. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of this situation which i find particularly worrying. accredited sources have confirmed iranian influence over a part of the shia population in bahrain. this is in addition to legitimate aspirations for more far-reaching reforms in the government of that country. it is difficult to distinguish how much external influence has weighed on the recent events in bahrain, but there is a risk of destabilization in the area that could extend to the eastern regions of saudi arabia where another large shia population lives. iran funds hamas, supports hezbollah in lebanon and influences the internal politics of iraq, where the shiite component is predominant in the government. if it were to spread to the gulf, the upheaval would be obvious and could have a global impact. we must therefore be very careful in assessing what is happening in the middle east and distinguish between the legitimate aspirations of the peoples for greater democracy and the external influences that have strategic ambitions in the area.
mr president, syria, bahrain and yemen are three tyrannies being challenged by their own citizens and these citizens deserve our unconditional support. until this moment the eu’s action vis-à-vis the wave of democratisation in the region has been uncertain and lacking in strength and credibility. if we want to increase both, we should start first of all to eliminate the double standards we used in the past. we supported these autocracies in several ways and we, the europeans, along with russia and the united states, sold them almost any sort of armaments. now we are lamenting the consequences of our arms trade with the gulf autocracies in terms of casualties, in terms of innocent victims of the weapons we sold to them. if we want to be credible we should cancel all contracts in armaments to these countries and to the gulf cooperation council, and ask for the establishment of an arms embargo in all of the north africa and middle east region. the reduction of their military budget will be a dividend to invest in a fund for the democratic transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i lived in bahrain for three years, from 1987 to 1990. bahrain was considered one of the most democratic countries in the gulf then and still in recent years. so you say, imagine what happens in other countries, because saudi arabia executes a few hundred people a year, because iran has the worst massacres, because all over the gulf people are killed regularly, and there's complete denial of the press. we have today adopted resolutions on syria, yemen and bahrain, but when will we prepare resolutions on saudi arabia, algeria, china and other countries which violate human rights throughout the world? the problem is that i see here in the west a strange thing that, on the one hand... (the president cut off the speaker)
the vote tomorrow is one of the steps which will shortly lead to iceland's accession to the european union. iceland has made considerable progress, as mr preda has said. here are a few examples: the commission has also taken note of the fact that the icelandic authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the financial crisis is not brought to an end. the question of "ice save", which is very thorny, remains open, however, and on saturday there will be a referendum that will lead the icelanders to express themselves with a vote. although the choice of referendum is a matter of debate, i believe it has a very strong democratic value in that it makes the icelandic people more accountable and more involved in this delicate phase of the negotiations. although the first referendum was unsuccessful, the icelandic government has gone to great lengths to create a cross-party coalition that can explain to the citizens why iceland is committed to paying back the uk and the netherlands for the damage they have suffered. the role of europe must be in this moment of waiting and respect, without putting excessive pressure that could generate a form of self-defence and closure on the part of icelandic society. as far as fisheries and agriculture are concerned, i believe that europe and iceland must find the best solution to meet the criteria of the treaty and to preserve the icelandic economy, ecosystems and the specific features of the country. iceland's accession to the european union will mean that europe will be pushed to the north pole, with significant political, economic, environmental and scientific benefits. it is clear that europe is still a strong attraction after 60 years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the neighbourhood policy is the beginning of a process which will not be completed in the short term. the events in the mediterranean are a process of profound transformation and will have lasting consequences, not only for the countries of the region but also for europe. we must be aware that the transition to full democracy will not be easy and that these transitions are accompanied by risks and many uncertainties. that is why the things we have to do are many and not short-lived. europe's response must be characterized by a strategy based on immediate and long-term action. it is necessary to facilitate access to european markets and to ensure greater mobility, a conference should be held to examine the possibility of cancelling or renegotiating the debt of these countries which have started on the path to democracy, adequate financial resources should be made available and, finally, assistance should be provided to democratic processes by strengthening parliamentary institutions and parties, ensuring full participation of all citizens. all this must take place within the framework of a relaunch of the euro-mediterranean dialogue. the strategic political future of europe is at stake here. i think europe must understand that it must work in the east and in the south, but that today there is a priority which concerns the south. these policies must be changed radically, and a new chapter must finally be opened.
in writing. in the context of the review of the european neighbourhood policy, it is important to assess the impact of this policy on migration phenomena. no neighbourhood policy can be fully effective in this area without addressing the causes of instability that trigger migration flows. this implies regional cooperation, both with the countries of origin and transit, including through bilateral agreements. it is necessary to work with the countries of transit and origin of migration flows to prevent the waves. we must help the countries of origin of immigrants to move towards democracy and good governance by making available our values and our experience. the european neighbourhood policy should offer an economic agenda capable of raising employment levels and trade agreements capable of generating real economic development consistent with market laws. commissioner füle and high representative ashton, using the phrase 'more for more', recalled the concept of conditionality in aid, which is intended to reward countries which are most active in democratic reform and respect for human rights. this approach must be supported, because it is consistent with our values, effective for development and morally right for the european taxpayer.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, following recent events in south-east europe, it is necessary to review the european neighbourhood policy in relation to the southern partner countries by providing the means and assistance necessary for a genuine democratic transition and laying the foundations for deep political, social and institutional reforms. it is important that the review of the neighbourhood policy gives priority to criteria relating to the independence of the judiciary, respect for fundamental freedoms, including media freedom, and the fight against corruption, but it is also necessary to reconsider and carefully examine the eu's strategy towards the mediterranean so that political dialogue and support for all democratic and social forces is strengthened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the eib's activities highlights some significant and worthwhile points, starting with the need to concentrate ever greater efforts on facilitating access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises. i also welcome the reference to project bonds, which i believe is a useful tool for the growth and development of a strategic sector such as infrastructure. i am rather puzzled by the part on the eib's external action, which calls for the use of more human and financial resources. the eib's 2009 report lists the countries that have benefited from these loans and notes with disappointment that turkey has the lion's share with almost 1/3 of the total granted to all non-eu states. this is also just over a quarter of the amount granted to italy, one of the eib's main shareholders, which would also be in great need of loans and facilities. i therefore regard this disproportion as absurd and i consider it unacceptable that enormous resources should be allocated to a country like turkey, which is outside the union and which, in my view, must always remain outside the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with mr gauzès. the european investment bank has always played a key and important role in the development of the union. its role and its action are all the more fundamental in a time of crisis such as the present one. recent economic governance reforms, linked to the effects of the crisis, could lead to lower allocations by states for important projects such as the creation of strategic infrastructure for the development of the union as a whole, such as the ten-t for rail transport. i agree with the european commission's initiative to create project bonds, those bonds linked to a project which are a great solution to raise credit and support infrastructure that europe needs to modernise and to make the most of the potential of the internal market. the eib's role in issuing and managing these bonds is therefore crucial. the report calls for more financing for small and mediumsized enterprises and i agree with the statement that the eib's work must be targeted and result-oriented. mr president, i would like to say that certain criticisms have emerged in connection with the bank's activities. in particular, i would point out that many smes often fail to benefit from the opportunities provided, because the projects financed require large resources and structures, effectively preventing small and mediumsized enterprises from participating. another problem is the time required for the procedures, which are often cumbersome and bureaucratic and not very suited to the activities and needs of the sector. i do not want to mention how important these companies are to our socioeconomic fabric and i therefore hope that a dialogue will be established with small and mediumsized enterprises to speed up the procedures to make the situation as unbureaucratic as possible. the eib can and must play an important role in managing the recent events in the mediterranean. europe must also think beyond the emergency and implement a long-term strategy to ensure that aid and investment are made locally, and with shared choices, for democracy and the development of the social and market economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this economic crisis, in the face of this crisis in the mediterranean, in the face of this energy crisis - take the case of japan with regard to nuclear energy - i believe that the eib, the operational arm of this policy, has a very important role to play. i believe that the eib must act within europe and must act outside europe. today we have the mediterranean at our disposal in a new important plan which must be launched in the near future. through what mechanisms? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr commissioner, can you tell us more about the timing and the way in which these project bonds are being implemented? i would like to ask the president of the eib: what happened to that fund created from the residues of the recovery plan that we started a few months ago? since time is of the essence at this particular moment, can you tell us something about this principle, in addition to the marguerite fund, which i do not know where it went? as regards these funds, which should activate and revive the economy, the timing, the timing of implementation is very important at this time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr wojciechowski and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this dossier, which is intended to make the rules on vaccination against bluetongue more flexible. the committee on agriculture has done its utmost to get the text approved as a matter of urgency and to allow the vaccination campaign to begin before the summer. the european commission had put forward a proposal which did not take account of the adoption of the lisbon treaty, that is to say it left the decision-making power to the council alone and excluded parliament altogether. after intensive negotiations - and i would like to thank parliament's legal service and the secretariat of the committee on agriculture for this - we have managed to reach agreement to change the legal basis under article 43 (2) of the treaty, i.e. under the ordinary legislative procedure. we now expect the council to adopt our position with the same efficiency, including the correspondence tables to give a rapid response to european farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are making a step forward in understanding that this is not a problem confined to certain parts of europe, to the south of europe or to north africa. but i am still in favour of the measure. i would like to ask mr tarabella whether the commission or the honourable member does not think that the problem of application in veterinary services should also be tackled immediately, so that there can be a measure to eliminate the problem throughout the european union.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we have put as the committee on petitions shows how unsatisfied our committee was with the answer which the executive committee thought it was giving to the question put by the spanish federation of associations of producers and exporters of fruit, vegetables, flowers and plants. the commission has focused its attention on the responsibility of the member states in the price-fixing mechanism, without taking account of the specific point raised in the petition, namely the denunciation of irregularities in the importation of tomatoes and other vegetables from morocco. this alleged irregularity has, among other things, been detected for some years by olaf, the control body, which has pointed out a incorrect application of the method of deduction laid down in regulation (ec) no 3223/1994 which establishes three different methods of calculation. the consequences of this situation are lower revenues for the european union, improper competition and violation of market rules, and a gradual impoverishment of european producers and exporters, with situations of serious concern reported especially in spain, greece, portugal, france and italy. the commission is negotiating a new bilateral agreement with morocco and in this agreement it seems once again to ignore these alarming figures and to continue on the road of implementing a flow of exports from morocco to the european union which is absolutely unregulated and does not comply with european legislation. i think this is a subject on which we should concentrate, a subject which takes into account and also touches a nerve that has been uncovered these days, which is about migration flows. in fact, this large mass of citizens coming from the coastal countries of north africa, including morocco, to the european union very often become in our countries - as the recent rosarno incident reminds us - agricultural workers. we have a great difficulty in welcoming, but above all we have a great difficulty as the european union, and particularly at this moment as italy, in giving life prospects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to know what the commission intends to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the petition under discussion today comes at a time when the committee on agriculture and the committee on international trade are discussing the new chapter on agriculture in the agreement with morocco. olaf confirms that there have been irregularities in the calculation of import duties on tomatoes and that damage has been caused to european producers, who are expressing their concern about the expected increase in imports of tomatoes and fruit and vegetables in general if the agreement is signed. we are of course sensitive to these concerns caused by bilateral agreements which often sacrifice the agricultural side to wider industrial interests. this is not a good way of doing things and we will continue to stress this to the european commission. however, i would point out that the current economic and political crisis in the whole maghreb region should lead us to think carefully and in greater solidarity about this agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that today's debate on this petition from fepex is a timely debate and comes at an important time, since the trade agreement with morocco is being discussed in parallel in this parliament. it is obvious that the petition raises a problem to which the commission does not seem to have yet given an answer. this parliament is strongly urging that answer before signing the new agreement, because it is not possible to continue to make european farmers pay for this desire for free trade which pervades europe. we need to defend and protect our farmers, not only in relation to tomato production but also in relation to all fruit and vegetable production, which would be heavily affected by this indiscriminate opening up of the market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the criticisms of the petition which have been raised here this morning are understandable. i think there is a lot to be done to ensure that a possible general agreement on agricultural products with morocco can be agreed. the agreement must meet the requirements of balance, which does not place european agricultural producers in a situation of great difficulty, and the need for clear and transparent rules of competition on agricultural markets. this is the way forward to make a positive relationship between the european union and morocco possible. i therefore call on the commission to find appropriate solutions which do not lose sight of the interests of producers in the field, but which do not lose sight of a renewed generous policy towards morocco, especially in the face of what is happening in the maghreb. it would be very useful to understand and i would not like it if instead of importing agricultural products and tomatoes we ended up importing tomato pickers in the first place. a substantive review is therefore important for a new european policy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, if you will allow me, i will start with some figures because they were referred to by several speakers in their statements. i will use the comext data for this. eu imports of tomatoes from morocco grew from 185 000 tonnes in the 1999-2000 season to 295 000 tonnes in 2009-2010, following the normal trend of fresh fruit and vegetable imports from all over the world. at the same time, total additional eu imports of tomatoes increased from 242 000 tonnes to 493 000 tonnes. i have to underline that morocco’s share of total eu imports actually decreased from 76% to 59%. eu tomato production varies between 16 and 18 million tonnes per year, of which 6.5 to 7.5 million tonnes are destined for the fresh market. i think that it is very good to bear these figures in mind so that we can keep this discussion and the size of the problem in proportion. regarding the new agreement with morocco, we in the commission believe that it is modest and balanced. if it is adopted the commission will of course ensure that all its conditions and rules are fully respected. additional quantities under the tariff rate quota will be kept below the traditional average of supplies to the eu. the current average annual level is 300 000 tonnes. with an additional 52 000 tonnes there will be 285 000 tonnes within the tariff rate quota, so there will still be scope for 15 000 tonnes of imports under the usual erga omnes regime. turning to another problem raised, namely the claim that we failed to act, i really cannot accept that because we did not find any systemic failure in the system. there was one case that was also presented here today in which olaf investigated the problem and referred the whole file with the findings to the french court, which did not support the full extent of olaf’s findings, but nevertheless the partial recovery of unpaid duties has started. i would also like to assure this house that, regarding control of phytosanitary standards, the commission is assuring the highest possible control and the highest possible level of standards for every import of fresh fruit and vegetables to the european union. at the same time, i have to say that i understand the vigilance of the members of the european parliament and the vigilance of the agricultural sector on these very pertinent issues. i would like to assure them that, if the organisations have concrete evidence of fraud, they are invited to bring this to the attention of the commission, which will carefully analyse it and take appropriate action if needed.
chairman of the agri committee. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a brief comment just to underline the importance of the wojciechowski report on bluetongue for an institutional issue which concerns us all. there is no conflict between the commission, parliament and the council as regards the content. the question of the inclusion of correlation tables in the text remains very sensitive. despite the council's strong opposition, the committee on agriculture voted in favour of a text which includes the tables of correspondence obliging the member states to report on the implementation of the directive. the council will now have to choose between accepting the correspondence tables and concluding the agreement at first reading, or accepting the responsibility before the european farmers to cancel the vaccination campaign against bluetongue this year in order not to give in on this point. i believe that this dossier can serve as an example for future negotiations with the council and we must be united and decisive in demanding the utmost transparency from the member states and in advocating full compliance with community legislation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important measure for the whole of the agricultural and pastoral world. but this measure must be followed swiftly by a commitment from the council, and therefore from the national governments, to adopt it immediately, before the end of the season, in such a way as to solve this problem which concerns not only the southern part of europe but also - and today's vote is a testimony to this - the whole of europe. the bluetongue disease affects the sheep and cattle herds on our farms. so, moving towards total eradication is a health policy objective to which national governments can contribute more by being more resilient. it is also a matter of adopting it immediately by transposing the directive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the fukushima tragedy we all need to reflect a little. nuclear power is back and i think we must think above all about the future, the future of our children. it is true that we need energy, but we also need clean energy and safe energy. security is fine, but it's not enough. the moratorium is not enough, we must go further. the fukushima tragedy tells us that there are no zero-risk power stations and above all that we must organise a rapid exit from nuclear energy and focus decisively on renewable and alternative sources of energy. europe needs a new energy policy to stop the construction of new nuclear power stations because of the tremendous impacts these plants have on safety, the environment, the climate and future generations. a radical change of perspective is needed for a secure future marked by energy savings and the use of renewable sources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation of italy of values voted against the text of the resolution on nuclear energy because it did not have the clarity to say a clear no to nuclear energy. unfortunately, all the amendments which could have improved the text and chosen a nuclear-free europe, free from existing nuclear power stations and without any future nuclear power stations, have been rejected. a nuclear-free europe is the only way to ensure that our children and future generations have a future free from the recurrence of disasters such as fukushima and chernobyl. these lessons teach us that there can be no theoretical security. that is why we must say clearly no to the nuclear option and invest in research and innovation on other sources that are truly green, renewable and clean.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 21 references, 21 explanatory notes and 63 points summarizing parliament's requests in the motion for a resolution, for a total of 105 points. i think they're really overkill for effectiveness. the commission has not yet put forward a proposal on how the development of international trade can help to achieve stability, and with it tranquility and peace, in the regions south of the mediterranean. international trade has now become a kind of new foreign policy and can help to create better living conditions throughout the region. the union must do everything possible to promote the development of fair trade relations by stimulating productive activity in the various sectors. any progress in this area will help to promote democracy and human rights, protect the dignity of women, strengthen security and stability, prosperity and a fair distribution of income and wealth, and avoid the tragedy of so many thousands of people fleeing hunger and migrating without real hope.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr janusz wojciechowski, which, through a series of interesting amendments to the commission's text, aims to bring an outdated and outdated legislation up to date and flexible, helping the member states to increase the efficiency of the use of vaccination against bluetongue by reducing its incidence in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants and has already caused a number of losses of animals affected by the disease since the early 2000s. europe has intervened with directive (ec) no 75/2000 to tackle the problem by regulating the use of so-called 'live modified' or 'attenuated' vaccines in order to effectively combat the consequences of the phenomenon. however, the vaccines used so far, the use of which was provided for in that directive, posed a risk of the virus being transmitted to unvaccinated animals, which is why it was provided that the vaccine could only be administered in well-defined areas. the newly available vaccines, so-called 'inactive vaccines', do not present such hazards as those on the market at the time of the introduction of directive (ec) no 75/2000. i voted in favour of this report because the new rules will enable the member states to control the phenomenon, reducing the burden of this disease on many european farmers. i hope that this will help to ensure that the emergency measures are adopted in due time, starting in the coming months.
in writing. − to ensure better control of bluetongue and reduce its burden on the agricultural sector, it is necessary to update the current rules on vaccination. the report voted today aims to make the current legislation more flexible, given that inactive vaccines are now available, which can be successfully used outside areas where restrictions have been imposed on the movement of livestock. the proposal is in line with the new eu animal health strategy (2007-2013) 'prevention is better than cure', as it provides both for a more flexible approach to vaccination and for an improvement of the measures currently in place to fight major animal diseases.
in writing. - madam president, the fukushima nuclear disaster has had a number of repercussions on european political life. the first lesson the eu learned from the japanese disaster was to act quickly to intensify safety checks at nuclear plants through stress tests. every nuclear plant, whether in europe or outside its borders, can be a potential weapon of destruction, and i believe that none of us wants to relive the chernobyl disaster of 26 april 1986. the second lesson is that science and technology can make giant strides in all areas, but always keeping in mind one great limitation, namely nature and its unpredictability. it is precisely because of events beyond human control that we should diversify our energy supply, including by making use of the renewable resources at our disposal. but if nuclear power is chosen as a source of energy support, it would be important first of all to inform the citizens about the costs, benefits and consequences of such a choice, without forgetting that this technological choice must necessarily be legitimized by the popular will which must be heard and respected.
in writing. − i voted against this report because of its several flaws, starting with its approach to the nuclear issue. after the japanese tragedy it is no longer possible to deal with the nuclear argument solely in terms of safety. the title of the report is ‘on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan’, but there is no special lesson to be drawn except that confirming the practical impossibility of controlling both the risks and consequences of a major nuclear accident. a resolution on this subject cannot be centred around the issue of nuclear safety without addressing the most important nuclear safeguard, which is an exit strategy from nuclear energy itself.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the joint resolution as a result of the house's rejection of two key amendments tabled by the s&d group, concerning the development of medium- and long-term strategies for the progressive phasing out of nuclear energy and the setting of binding targets for renewable energy. the house's negative vote on the entire resolution makes it even more evident that the nuclear issue is no longer just a matter of greater security: it is now essential to start a serious reflection on the energy question and on investments in renewable energy. the tragic experience of japan teaches us just how necessary it is to discuss nuclear energy in depth, and in this sense the vote by the european parliament is the first step towards a change in energy policy choices, both at european and international level.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant on 11 march 2011, caused by the earthquake and subsequent tsunami, caused damage and long-term health consequences in terms of environmental contamination. the international atomic energy agency has warned that the safety of nuclear power stations is outdated, and it is therefore necessary to identify measures to ensure the safety of these plants. cooperation and coordination between states is a priority in this area, given that crises of this kind do not affect the country in which they are built, but have a generalised effect. the events of the past year have forced europe to adopt a series of particularly stringent measures to ensure that existing safety standards are maintained in order to prevent disasters of this magnitude. the development of new nuclear power stations in belarus and russia obliges the commission to act, in dialogue with these countries, in order to guarantee the security not only of the neighbouring countries but of europe as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on nuclear safety because after the recent events in japan we cannot fail to approach the problem with responsibility and objective criteria. i think it is important that europe should review the safety regulations for nuclear power stations to ensure absolute safety levels that can be identified by stress tests that will show any risks and limits of the use of nuclear energy. the resolution itself is intended to show how, despite everything, we can always learn from disasters and react in a clear and effective way to make sure that they do not happen again. it also stresses the need to focus on alternative energy sources such as renewable energy, although nuclear remains indispensable as a low-carbon energy source.
in writing. the very serious nuclear accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power station on 11 march caused the death of thousands of people and unimaginable material damage to the entire economy of the rising sun. this catastrophe is causing all the countries of the world to reconsider their positions on the use of nuclear energy technologies. unfortunately, in many cases these decisions are being accelerated in the wake of the recent tragic events and there are calls from many quarters for the total and immediate dismantling of nuclear installations. the eu as a whole has been reviewing its approach to nuclear safety for some time now, but it must take into account that this technology will continue to be part of the energy mix of several member states for many years to come. in the future it may be possible to meet our energy needs from renewable sources, but this is not yet possible and will not be for a long time. i am in favour of stricter safety standards for nuclear power stations, as is already the case for the next generation. however, i consider the option of stopping nuclear power production overnight to be a short-sighted and unnecessary choice, driven more by sentiment than by real motives, capable of bringing the economies of the world's major industrialized countries to their knees.
in writing. - after the nuclear disaster in japan, we must review the european energy plan. particular attention should be paid to both existing and planned nuclear power stations. the european union has already planned to carry out stress tests on all plants, including those in neighbouring countries but which have current relations with the union. this resolution also provides for a moratorium on the construction of new plants to allow for appropriate risk assessments. we must be aware that in any case many countries will continue to be dependent on nuclear energy in the coming decades, but at the same time we cannot allow that there should be plants in europe which put the population at risk. the plants before 1980 must be dismantled. in some countries, such as italy, there are assessments under way on whether or not to abandon nuclear energy, and it is essential that shared choices at european level also be implemented. the fact is that the european parliament has not been able to express itself on an important subject which is of interest to the citizens, such as the one under discussion today. in fact, all the resolutions were rejected, including the joint resolution on which we voted in favour.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. the member states which have invested in nuclear energy are those with the highest public debt. how much does it cost to shut down the first and second generation plants? how much do these stress tests we're talking about today cost? once a plant is shown to be "stressed", how much does it cost to "reset" it? and again, how much does it cost to dispose of the waste? no one's told us yet. as a european union we could begin to imagine other ways of showing the member states and, since the commission will have to provide us with a road map, why not start thinking about real investment in fourth generation nuclear power, clean nuclear power, fusion power, or even start to envisage an energy regulatory plan? we are waiting for the commission's communication to outline a road map on this subject and to finally try to give a concrete direction to the european union in this area.
in writing. the nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power plant created a huge catastrophe, causing radioactive contamination among many injured people around the plant. many hospitals refuse to admit and treat them because of the risk of contamination. despite the japanese prime minister's announcement that the fukushima plant will be dismantled, the situation remains unresolved with the cooling system of one of the reactors still out of use and a significant dispersion of radioactivity into the environment. in view of this, it is important to ensure all the necessary humanitarian and financial aid and to establish highly reliable international security rules in order to prevent future disasters like the one in japan. that is why i voted against the resolution, because amendments were not included which called on member states to implement any strategies for nuclear decommissioning and to inform regional and local crossborder authorities of their national programmes immediately if implementation could have crossborder effects.
in writing. - the current situation in several african countries, including bahrain, syria and yemen, is the result of the legitimate aspirations of the people for political, economic and social reforms to achieve genuine democracy. as is well known, these countries have long had repressive laws restricting the exercise of civil and political rights by their citizens. as a result, the people's desire for political and social reform is strong. unfortunately, governments are responding to these legitimate demands with violent repression and anti-terrorism laws to justify extrajudicial executions, torture, kidnappings and the disappearance of many protesters. to date, in syria, bahrain and yemen, the death toll, the number of injured and arrested is very high. the excessive use of force by governments against demonstrators has violated every international covenant on civil and political rights. i join the rapporteur in condemning the violent repression of peaceful protesters by the security forces in these countries and in firmly supporting their legitimate democratic aspirations. we must express our full solidarity and support the courage and determination that these peoples are showing to the whole world.
in writing. - madam president, in the run-up to the istanbul conference in may next year, the eu reiterated its support for the achievement of the mdgs (millennium development goals) in developing countries, reaffirming its commitment to provide specific assistance programmes. although some countries and regions have made significant progress, the target of halving the level of poverty in the world is still far from being achieved: 11 million children still die every year from treatable diseases, most of them before the age of five; one in four people do not have access to safe drinking water. 114 million children continue to be excluded from primary education; there are still some 600 million women who are illiterate and an equal number of millions who have no access to progress. the failure to achieve the targets set in 2001 will not deter the industrialized countries, which will continue to give priority to countries in need of assistance, encouraging new sources of targeted funding and the creation of cooperation programmes. to revive these countries and give a future to thousands of people requires commitment, great political determination and a substantial mobilisation of financial resources - requirements which the eu has.
in writing. − i voted against the joint motion on the fourth united nations conference on least developed countries because the motion is not focused enough on the problem of international aid ineffectiveness. the motion, and the statement by the commission during the parliamentary debate, ignore the current critical discussion on the last 50 years of international aid to the countries of the global south, and ignore the lessons to be drawn by past failures and successes. why the monumental failure of the aid to africa? why the monumental failure of the world bank policies on development and poverty reduction? why the huge scandal of foreign aid delivery to afghanistan during the last 10 years? why the huge success of the poverty elimination policies in china, vietnam and brazil? if we are not able to answer these difficult questions, we will never be able to use the eur 60 billion in development aid for the benefit of the least developed countries.
in writing. - 48 countries are currently classified as least developed in the world, with some 800 million people living on less than 2 dollars a day. between 2000 and 2010, the average human development index for the least developed countries increased by only 0.04%. this shallow increase is gradually pushing them further away from the eight millennium development goals set by the un in 2000. fortunately, in the wake of the third united nations conference, some positive steps have been taken in the field of official development assistance, enabling 19 countries to achieve a growth rate of 3%. i share the rapporteur's view in stressing the importance of the fourth united nations conference. the main objectives must be directed at development policy, agriculture and fisheries, with a view to achieving concrete results and innovative financing. i hope that the contribution to sustainable development will also translate into support for health, education and the promotion of democracy, while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms as fundamental components of the european union's development policy.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution voted in parliament on the report on iceland's progress in 2010 could not but have my full support. in the past year iceland has shown its willingness to conform to european policy and the principles which inspire it on several fronts. the strong civic-democratic tradition, the progress made in strengthening the independence of the judiciary, the special attention paid to the economic aspect, which increasingly corresponds to the criteria required by europe, make it a country whose accession to the eu can only be considered positive, also in view of the fact that it would strengthen the role of the union within the arctic council. the safeguarding of human rights, the strengthening of the legislative framework on freedom of expression and access to information, and the substantial investments in education, research and development to tackle the high rate of youth unemployment demonstrate the country's industriousness and its firm will to align itself with europe. the last word will be with the icelandic people, who will have to express themselves through a referendum, in the hope that they will express themselves in favour of joining the great european family.
in writing. − iceland has been a candidate country for accession to the european union since 2010. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i am convinced that this country has a strong democratic tradition and civic culture, and its accession will be able to further strengthen the eu's role as a promoter and defender of human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion to wind up the debate on statements by the european council and the commission on the 2010 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom). i believe it is a very balanced motion. it expresses concern about the current political situation in fyrom, including the boycott of the national parliament by the opposition parties, and about the risk that these developments could adversely affect the country’s eu agenda. the motion also congratulates the country on the anniversary of the ohrid agreement, which remains the cornerstone of its inter-ethnic relations, and calls on the government to foster a comprehensive dialogue between the ethnic communities. i also appreciated the positive evaluation in the motion on fyrom’s continuous efforts to stabilise the region.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled for parliament's vote on the 2010 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was adopted by a large majority and with the agreement of several political groups. i appreciate the efforts made by this country to align itself with european standards. reform of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, reform of the public administration and the prison system are some of the important achievements in the field of respect for the acquis communautaire. the focus on granting local autonomy, the adoption of the anti-discrimination law and the commitment to gender equality is also commendable. freedom of expression and media independence remain, however, notoriously weak. the growing ethnic tensions within the country are also causing concern. despite the positive results, i therefore believe that it is necessary to continue to pay attention to the institutional question, which is very fragile and has been tried and tested. i hope, finally, that the process of rapprochement with europe will be consolidated by action aimed at filling the gaps which still exist today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the time has come to start negotiations on the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the eu. since the european council of 16 december 2005 granted the country candidate status for eu membership, no significant progress has been made in this respect. this is mainly due to a number of internal problems in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, especially with regard to the boycott of the national parliament by opposition parties. this and other problems, such as the presence of a free and independent media, which is a necessary prerequisite for the development of a stable democracy, must be clarified as soon as possible so that both sides can resume the path towards the eu's enlargement to the east.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious political and institutional crisis which has been rocking the ivory coast for months has led to a series of violence which seem to have no end. i strongly condemn the attempt by former president gbagbo to subvert by violence a legitimate electoral result, which saw him defeated in favour of alassane ouattara. the ivory coast has been experiencing a situation of urban guerrilla warfare for several months now, in which there is a struggle between supporters of the outgoing president and the citizens. i believe that europe, precisely in contexts such as this, where fundamental human rights and the very ideal of democracy are seriously threatened, must make its voice heard loudly in condemning such acts and in expressing deep dissent and indignation.
in writing. - in the last four months, côte d'ivoire has been plunged into a deep political crisis. the refusal of outgoing president laurent gbagbo to hand over power to alassane ouattara, the winner of the presidential election in november 2010, has sparked a spiral of violence across the country that shows no sign of abating. since mid-february, fighting has intensified in both the capital and the western part of the country, and alarming reports continue to come in about the increased use of heavy artillery against civilians. so far, the diplomatic efforts of the international community have been in vain, despite the election result being validated by the united nations. it is time to condemn the attempts by former president gbagbo and his supporters to violently subvert the will of the ivorian people: laurent gbagbo must resign immediately and hand over power to alassane ouattara, the legitimately elected president.
in writing. - article 8 of the treaty on european union lays down the obligation to develop preferential relations with neighbouring countries in order to create an area of prosperity and cooperation. as demonstrated, the european neighbourhood policy has contributed greatly to strengthening relations with partner countries and has brought many tangible benefits to the common welfare. however, the challenges are not over, and attention should be focused on priorities for action according to the most effective parameters, in particular with regard to the eastern partnership. the partnership with the eastern neighbours is a very interesting policy framework for european welfare. its platform of action is centred on four themes: the european union is committed to the promotion of democracy, good governance, economic integration and convergence with european policies. unfortunately, at the moment the conflicts in these countries are seriously undermining their economic, social and political development, and are a serious obstacle to regional cooperation and security, as demonstrated by the recent uprisings in tunisia and egypt. i hope that a strategic review of the european neighbourhood policy, in accordance with the union's values against oppressive regimes, will help the legitimate democratic aspirations of the peoples of the east.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of recent events in the mediterranean basin and the direct and indirect consequences for european countries, it is necessary to undertake a rapid and thorough review of the european union's neighbourhood policy. the new european strategy will have to be based on a redefinition of the resources available for the mediterranean, providing for increased financial commitments to political, economic and social reforms in the countries of the region and calling for resources related to immigration. moreover, in the face of the radical changes affecting our southern neighbours, i believe that the time has come to adopt a new european approach that aims not only at defending democracy but also at adopting concrete measures to alleviate migratory pressures and guarantee the security of energy supply. it is therefore a priority to lay the foundations as soon as possible for a new and strengthened partnership with the southern neighbourhood states in order to foster stability, economic development and democratic transition in the area. to this end, i believe that the european union must play a key role in the geopolitical context of the region.
in writing. - article 8 of the treaty on european union lays down the obligation to develop preferential relations with neighbouring countries in order to create an area of prosperity and cooperation. respect for and promotion of democracy and human rights, in particular women's rights, are core principles of the eu and must represent common values shared with the european neighbourhood policy partner countries. currently, civil unrest in tunisia, egypt and libya is the consequence of the general discontent of the population towards their totalitarian regimes, and is spreading throughout the eastern region. in the face of this changed social and political situation, the eu needs to make effective changes to its neighbourhood policy in order to effectively support the process of reform in the field of human rights and democracy. the eu needs to define in detail the strategic priorities pursued in partnerships with its eastern and southern neighbours. i hope that the union will act in accordance with the will to initiate a process of democratization, particularly with regard to greater participation of women in public life and better planning of socioeconomic developments.
in writing. - the violence perpetrated against women and children in recent weeks during the conflicts in north africa does not surprise us, because unfortunately women have increasingly become a target in armed conflicts to be humiliated, tortured, possessed and controlled with the intention of destroying, in whole or in part, a targeted group. but not only that, no one has the right to violate the dignity of women just because they have the courage to claim the right to express their thoughts, actively participating in the construction of a democratic and peaceful world and above all claiming the right to gender equality. inhuman and degrading treatment such as electrocution, "virginity tests", physical and psychological violence, rape and slavery are unacceptable practices that must be stopped. it is right that, as in any other conflict in the world, those responsible for these serious acts of violence should be punished, because they are not only civilians but, even more reprehensible, military personnel. i really hope that the eu will be able to press for these countries to ratify a number of international legal instruments, including the statute of the icc and the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees, as soon as possible.
in writing. − the uprisings in north africa and the middle east have seen women actively participate in demanding the shared desire for democracy and fundamental rights. unfortunately, the ruling regimes in libya and egypt have a long history of using sexual assault as a weapon, targeting women. we must denounce the use of sexual violence as a tool to intimidate and humiliate women, without forgetting that the power vacuum that has now emerged could lead to a deterioration of their rights. significant is the case of a libyan woman who told reporters in a tripoli hotel in march that she had been gang-raped by soldiers. today, the young woman was sued for libel by the same men who raped her. action is needed to strongly denounce the disproportionate impact of armed conflict on women and to strengthen their role in peacebuilding. i hope that the eu's condemnation of violence against women and children, particularly during armed conflict, and of all forms of discrimination against them, as recognised under the geneva convention, will be loudly recalled.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that in this period of crisis the eib has been able to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of our society. the involvement and dialogue with local financial intermediaries is appreciated. i think that the emphasis on renewable energy in the candidate countries is very important. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - i welcome the approval of the report by mr cutas on the 2009 annual report of the european investment bank. i would like to emphasize the excellent work of the eib in supporting small and mediumsized enterprises in a period of economic difficulties and difficult access to credit. i also support the development, in conjunction with the european commission, of eib project bonds to finance major transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects which are essential to achieving the objectives of growth and cohesion within the union.
in writing. the document adopted today underlines the clear need for further eib support in the strategic sectors for the revival of the european economy: small and medium-sized enterprises, intermediate finance and infrastructure, and other key projects to improve growth and jobs, as part of the europe 2020 strategy. the report calls on the eib to invest in freight transport using the european railway sector as well as in other transeuropean freight transport networks focusing on the mediterranean, black sea and baltic sea ports, with a view to permanently linking them to european markets. the eib should also provide more support to the construction of the ten-t network in order to generate a leverage effect for increased investment, both public and private. to achieve this, project bonds can be an investment instrument complementary to the budgetary allocation provided for in the ten-t fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beijing's justification that the artist ai weiwei has been arrested for economic crimes is not convincing, nor is it convincing that this harassment is being exercised against a free and dissident artist. it is not convincing because this arrest is part of hundreds of arrests of opponents and the systematic repression of any dissent. in the days of the arab uprisings, our thoughts turn to the images of the cruel violence in tiananmen square against the chinese youth who were demanding, as they are today with the jasmine revolution, freedom and democracy. china has opened up to the west economically, but without combining production with respect for the environment and safety at work, and it is unable to open up to democracy and pluralism. we are not here to interfere in china's internal affairs, as beijing claims, but to appeal to men and women, movements and parties who want to build a world free of intolerance on every continent. the beijing government looks at what is happening in the world to understand that if it does not change, it will be the events of history and the chinese people that change china.
mr president, i do not wish to refer to the rules of procedure, but i simply did not understand what you said. mr de magistris has asked for immunity, if i understand him correctly. he didn't feel well. since mr de magistris is the champion of the fight against immunity in my country, there must have been a mistake in the translation. i think it is unlikely that mr de magistris has asked for immunity. i have misunderstood and would therefore like to have a clarification in this regard.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we did not want to change the agenda or, rather, propose to change it substantially by adding or replacing a subject, but simply ask that the subject on which the vice-president will be speaking be extended. we simply ask that the issue of the christian minority, especially the copts, in egypt, be added to the subject of syria and the ashraf camp. this is a sensitive area and a matter of minority protection, which is why i ask my colleagues to approve this proposal.
mr president, i support mr speroni's request, precisely because the situation, which is centred on the clashes involving the coptic community, is a signal of the risks connected with what is happening in egypt. i therefore ask that the request be supported, precisely because it is not a question of defending the identity of the coptic community but rather because it represents the sundial of the complex situation in egypt. i therefore believe that a close monitoring of the european parliament - especially through the statement by commissioner ashton - is absolutely necessary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we all agree and are in agreement that this programme of harmonising frequencies and coordinating the use of spectrum can serve two purposes. i think this is a point which must always be borne in mind, namely to develop the great economic potential of this sector for telecommunications, audiovisual and new services, while giving an impetus to economic development and other sectors linked to telecommunications, and developing the potential for cultural and social development which this dual function affirms and requires. i believe that this programme must also be an opportunity for our choices to respect and affirm certain fundamental principles. the first: the issue of media pluralism. the revision of the system for managing radio and television frequencies at european level is very important and, in my view, it is clearly necessary to avoid the accumulation of rights relating to frequencies and the formation of monopolies or oligopolies which unfortunately exist in some european countries and are being stabilized and strengthened in the field of radio and television. the second: the principle of a balance between liberalisation and opening up the market to new entrants and, at the same time, an equity that also allows the market to promote, support and maintain the commitments made to those operators who have made significant investments. finally, transparency and the guarantee of good governance and good administration in the allocation of frequencies. we are talking about auctions not only to give priority to a market aspect which must be balanced with all the social use of spectrum, but also to say that there must be no discretion and no allocation of improper advantages in radio frequencies. this too is a point that deserves great attention. finally, i regret that i do not have time to dwell on the social aspects, which have, however, been widely discussed by all the members of my group.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we really do not understand why the majority of the inta committee wanted to discuss this matter at all costs and then ask for a referral back, a request which we do not share. both decisions are wrong, but for reasons of time i shall only dwell on the substance, not before i have said that i fully agree with what president vital moreira said. in this complicated world, which is constantly experiencing numerous natural and other tragedies, it would set a serious precedent if we turned every humanitarian emergency into a review of trade policies. it is a dangerous path, which could lead to profound imbalances and consequent injustices in relation to the poorest countries, which, on the other hand, can only benefit from trade policy if it is based on balanced, durable and objective rules, which cannot replace development cooperation. we know that the benefits that would be granted to pakistan would not benefit the people who were affected by the floods almost a year ago. and we know just as well that the european textile industry will be the main, if not the only, one to pay for this humanitarian aid. we cannot accept this unfair derogation from the rules of trade policy, because we are aware of the need to take other factors into account in our reasoning. we all know that, besides solidarity with the flooded people of pakistan, another fundamental reason for the aid is the decision to support pakistan's efforts to combat terrorism. the shadow areas that have emerged in recent days between the pakistani authorities and al qaeda and the bin laden story itself demonstrate the unreliability of this country. i think that this should be taken into account, as well as the major human rights issues that have recently emerged.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is something wrong with a debate taking place in may 2011 and it refers to a natural disaster in the summer of 2010, a disaster that left 12 million people homeless and devastated 20 percent of this country. i do not share the socialist position expressed by mr susta. it is also because of these hesitations that we are still racking our brains to understand what tools can be adopted to effectively help pakistan and to the frustration of not having succeeded yet is added the awareness of the need for a more mature trade policy vision both politically and humanitarian: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am grateful to the commission for having acted well and quickly in proposing a package of measures, which obviously needed to be discussed and rebalanced in order not to penalise a european industry already tested by the crisis. it is the work of the inta committee, also expressed in certain amendments, among which the alde group supports amendment no 37, which also allows companies to apply for the application of the safeguard clause. however, it seems that these are not lucky times for pakistan and too many are not taking their responsibilities. we call on india to change its attitude, to soften its refusal at the wto to express a concrete gesture of good neighbourly relations. of course, relations between the two countries are difficult, since there is also the background to the bombay bombing and the lack of pakistani cooperation in identifying and arresting the perpetrators of that bombing. but this could be a break from the bad habits of a bad neighborhood. we also ask the pakistani authorities to take a more determined approach to this matter in their bilateral relations with india. there have been bilateral meetings recently, but little has emerged, perhaps because of pride on the part of pakistan. it is true that the cricket diplomacy - emphasized by our pakistani parliamentary colleagues, whom we met only two weeks ago - has so far produced no significant results. finally, it is above all the wto that we ask - as we did in geneva during the recent interparliamentary assembly - to put in place as soon as possible mechanisms which will enable the rules of international trade to respond quickly and flexibly to the needs of a country hit by sudden disasters. this whole tariff reduction thing can either end in nothing or open up a new era in trade relations.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find this report totally unacceptable. i am aware of the tragic floods that hit pakistan last year and i feel it is right to help this country. i am informed - and this is not a small matter - that the european union has already made available about half a billion euros. these new facilities are absurd because they concentrate on a sector - the textile sector - which is dominant in pakistan and which has been destroyed in europe by unfair competition from asian countries. we are not going to give the final blow to the european textile industry. that is certainly not the league's wish, nor do we intend to accept it. the granting of these derogations, if approved by parliament, will then have to be examined by the world trade organisation. it seems that some states - including india, pakistan's historic enemy, as mentioned earlier - are prepared to give their consent, not free of charge, but in exchange for the granting of similar favourable conditions by the european union, which is prepared to accept these requests. i have the impression that the european union's trade policy is driven by the worst possible self-destruction and i therefore hope that this measure will be rejected outright.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation under discussion today, under the guise of solidarity, is in fact the latest betrayal of europe by its citizens. we cannot accept that the eu should further damage sectors such as textiles which are of high quality in countries such as italy and others, and which we should protect in every way from unfair competition from countries such as china, turkey, india, vietnam and pakistan, where labour is exploited at very low cost and where there are no minimum guarantees of respect for social rights. it is in these countries that many large european companies have relocated their production to the detriment of jobs in europe. it is also incomprehensible that it did not even wait to hear the opinion of the world trade organization on this measure. but europe has in fact always shown itself to be fully committed when it comes to acting against the interests of its citizens and its high-quality industries. i very much hope that the rules of procedure will be rejected at the vote.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this negotiation is a bit like the goddess shiva with four arms, because it takes so much effort to conclude such a multifaceted agreement. i shall now explain the positions of the alde group. first of all: access to medicines. while i welcome the statement of the commissioner, i reiterate my rejection of any temptation to introduce protectionist measures in a sector where europe has in fact in the past obstructed access to low-cost medicines. nothing is more vulgar than to exploit the issue of counterfeiting for purely protectionist purposes. the agreement should rather be an opportunity for cooperation between the indian and european pharmaceutical industries. secondly: the industrial sectors. we ask india to agree to include in the agreement sensitive sectors which are now heavily taxed for our exports, such as the automobile and alcohol sectors. the third is agriculture. we are prepared to discuss agricultural products and to open up our market, but we must pay attention to the following points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. as regards the latter aspect, i would remind you that geographical indications are not only a matter of commercial policy but also a factor of european identity. we therefore hope that every effort will be made to simplify the registration procedures in a bureaucratic system - the indian system - which is very heavy, perhaps even heavier than the european system, which is all there is to say. as regards public procurement, i welcome the commission's statement that india, for the first time, seems to be willing to include public procurement in an international agreement. indian railways alone, for example 17,000 trains carrying 18 million passengers a day and with plans to build another 25,000 kilometres of railway track in the next ten years represents one of the many potential markets that will open up with this free trade agreement. if negotiated well, the benefit will be to both sides by promoting sustainable development, with a gradual eradication of child labour and the respect of more advanced social protection. i think that a prejudicial opposing position is unnecessary and that is why i am calling on all the groups in the european parliament to reject a compromise text a priori.
the european council's request to open negotiations with japan for the conclusion of a free trade agreement must be assessed with great caution. we therefore appreciate the commissioner's cautious approach to this subject and we call on the whole parliament to follow the line which inspired our group's motion for a resolution. the new japanese government has demonstrated - at least in words - its willingness to open up its market, one of the most closed in the developed world. this positive attitude must be seen in practice, especially in relation to the 27 non-tariff barriers identified by the european union, the removal of which is essential to start negotiations with the sunrise and to include them among the priorities of our trade policy. we believe that the improvement of these relations can help european competitiveness because japan represents 9% of world gdp and, together with our own, over 35%. but today we cannot vote on resolutions which do not make the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement subject to precise, binding and verifiable conditions for genuine reciprocity and an adequate impact assessment. firstly, we are concerned about japan's protectionist policy in the motor vehicle sector, which is a disproportion between exports and imports. secondly, we want to mention the question of non-tariff barriers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we ask that before europe declares itself ready to open negotiations for the conclusion of a free trade agreement, it should clearly define the community interest it intends to protect and the reciprocity it will require from japan. we hope that the commission will take these observations into account.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr schlyter for his excellent report on a sensitive subject which requires a great deal of common sense. not all investment agreements can be replaced by european agreements, but neither can the commission ignore agreements which contravene european provisions, and we agree with the rapporteur on the emphasis on transparency. ideally we should have a clause to automatically terminate the 1200 agreements currently in force, but unfortunately that would create legal uncertainty for investors and perhaps too much work for the commission itself. our amendments in the inta committee have been successful in ensuring that the commission's powers are fully respected and in ensuring that legal certainty is preserved. some amendments which we will be voting on tomorrow in the house may now alter this compromise and balance and i am calling on my colleagues, and in particular the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, to come up with a measure which is balanced and sustainable for all.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tran committee has confirmed my positive nomination for the european transport agencies as support bodies for the european commission. the granting of the discharge is based on the fact that the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the agencies to be reliable in substance, although it is necessary to record and highlight certain critical points, in some cases common to all or some of the agencies, such as cancellations and delays in the procurement procedures, failure to comply with the staff regulations or breach of the principle of annuality of the budget. however, the commitment of the agencies themselves to overcoming these problems should be highlighted. in general terms, i would like to make two brief political remarks, namely the lack of multiannual programming - a symptom of a management deficit - and a deficit in the incisiveness of action by certain agencies, such as rail transport. in this connection, i would like to recall - two years later - the delay in defining the procedures for liability for the viareggio disaster.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a time of general economic constraints which require sacrifices on the part of everyone, i believe it is essential that the community institutions - which operate on the money of the european citizens - should have the most transparent financial management possible. i find it unacceptable that one of the main bodies, the council, should continue to maintain a position of total closure and lack of transparency. as the only democratically elected institution, and as the direct representative of the citizens and taxpayers of europe, i believe we have a right to know exactly how all the appropriations have been managed. it is not possible for the council to persist in its line of action by refusing a necessary and proper interinstitutional dialogue. the european union is based on a fundamental balance of power and in doing so the council is failing to respect this prerogative. it is therefore essential that it should be brought into line with the other institutions as soon as possible and that it should be accountable to parliament - and thus to the citizens - for the way in which its budget is actually managed.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i would like to know, madam president, whether the vote we are about to take is the result of an automatic procedure or of a specific request made by mr de magistris, who has distinguished himself in recent years by attacking the privileges of the political caste, saying that we must defend ourselves in the process and not look for loopholes to avoid it. i would like to know whether the honourable member is asking for immunity or whether it is an automatic procedure. madam president, i would like to clarify this point, because if it is mr de magistris who wants to avoid the trial... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr silvestris, may i take this? you asked whether mr de magistris is claiming immunity or whether the procedure is automatic. to whom did you make this request? i am told that it was mr de magistris who asked for immunity to be waived.
i'm sorry, but we have to take a vote. mr president, you have already had the opportunity to make your point.
your honor, he did it yesterday! however, this is not provided for in the rules. i'm sorry, but we'll have to take a vote.
now, ladies and gentlemen, i have a message to read from president jerzy buzek. 'i am pleased to inform you that we have the honour today of welcoming mr bogdan borusewicz, president of the polish senate, mrs irena degutienė, president of the seimas of the republic of lithuania, and mr volodimir litvin, president of the verkhovna rada of ukraine. the three presidents met today in the european parliament for an extraordinary session of the interparliamentary assembly of the parliamentarians of the republics of lithuania, poland and ukraine. this assembly is rooted in the tradition of the polish-lithuanian commonwealth, which for over two centuries has represented the frontiers of europe, understood as a political, cultural and civilizational project. the meeting of this parliamentary assembly today in strasbourg marks the 220th anniversary of the adoption of the constitution of 3 may, the first constitution in europe. "
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although the vote has been postponed, i am strongly opposed to the report because i do not want to see a sector die - the textile sector - which has been the real economic and driving force of my homeland, tuscany, for centuries. today we are granting pakistan the elimination of tariffs on textiles: then it could be india's turn and then who knows what other state. this is the result of the european union's vicious trade policy. after the floods, pakistan had already received almost half a billion euros in aid from europe. it seems that the aid is also granted to avoid dangerous undemocratic consequences. but isn't pakistan the hiding place of the most wanted and dangerous terrorist in history? were the pakistani authorities really unaware of this? last year, the veneto region was also hit by severe flooding, which brought many local textile companies to their knees. the signing of this agreement risks making the efforts to get back to production totally futile. the textile producers, especially the smaller ones, seem to have been abandoned by europe, where the big producers who have relocated are in charge. but we of the league will fight to the end to preserve and grow a precious resource of our territories.
madam president, the treaty of lisbon lists foreign direct investment among the issues relating to the common commercial policy and, on the basis of article 3 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union has exclusive competence in this area. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, member states have maintained in force a number of agreements with third countries on foreign direct investment. if we want to avoid these agreements interfering with the rules laid down in the treaty, we cannot but adopt the rules and measures contained in mr schlyter's report. the adoption of measures replacing existing agreements is the only way to ensure a high level of protection for investors and to ensure that their rights are recognised and guaranteed through the legal certainty of such agreements. the project is certainly going in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i am absolutely convinced of the need to control european investment abroad at a time of great economic crisis and uncertainty. with the entry into force of the new treaty, competence for investment protection is transferred from the member states to the union. i hope, however, that the commission will present a report in september setting out the strategic lines in this area. the transition phase needs to be regulated and it is essential that, through an authorisation process, bilateral investment agreements concluded by member states are maintained and that member states are allowed, under certain conditions, to renegotiate existing agreements or to complete those in the process of adoption and to enter into negotiations for the conclusion of further agreements. however, legal certainty will remain relative as long as the transition of the investment protection regime is not completed and deadlines for bilateral investment agreements already concluded by member states are not set. a transitional period is therefore necessary to manage this transition and, in order to avoid legal loopholes, this regulation leaves the management of the treaties to the member states. in view of the above, i would like to reiterate my hope that the commission will shortly define the appropriate strategic lines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of authorising the discharge for 2009 in respect of the budget of the court of justice because i believe that its formal and substantive correctness is the result of the very high level of work of all the staff of this institution.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. today's vote gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european court of justice for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour because the audits carried out by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have shown that all the operations carried out were carried out in full legality and regularity.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament notes that, in the course of preparing the annual report for the financial year 2009, the court of auditors carried out an in-depth assessment of the supervisory and control systems of the court of justice, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor, which included the examination of an additional sample of payment transactions relating to human resources and other administrative expenditure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the budget of the european ombudsman because, in the light of the report on his activities and the observations i made on that occasion, i believe that the accounting procedures have been complied with, that the overall management can be considered good and that in the coming years those aspects which have hitherto been considered controversial can be improved.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done throughout the discharge procedure. in today's vote, i supported the request for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section viii european ombudsman. the court of auditors, responsible for external financial control, stated that, after a careful assessment of the budget, it had obtained reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also welcome the ombudsman's decision to publish the ombudsman's annual declaration of interests also on the ombudsman's website and i join the court of auditors in congratulating the ombudsman on the quality of his annual activity report.
in writing. − with today's resolution, the european parliament grants the european ombudsman discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. i would stress that the european parliament welcomes the fact that in 2009 the ombudsman was able to contribute to almost 77% of complaints and to deal with 70% of inquiries in less than one year. the fact that the average duration of the investigations has been reduced to 9 months (compared to 13 months in 2008) is welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the european data protection supervisor because, despite some controversial data and less transparency than required, the edps has shown a willingness to commit to undertaking further ex post verification processes from 2011 onwards.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. i would stress that the european parliament welcomes the fact that, in preparing the annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009, the court of auditors carried out a thorough assessment of the supervisory and control systems at the court of justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies because i find the report to be objective, serious and independent. critical points are duly highlighted, as are positive elements. with reports of this kind, if the above is followed up in the coming years, the quality of the community's administrations can only increase, and the basis for the complaints of those who criticise the european union will be reduced.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the work done by the rapporteur and all those who have taken part in the drafting of the texts relating to the granting of discharge for the financial year 2009. in general terms, we can say that the results achieved in 2009 are better than in previous years, but it is true that, also with reference to this financial year, the court of auditors found, for more than one agency, a high level of carryovers and cancellations of operational appropriations, as well as a high number of transfers. some agencies have also shown several shortcomings in the procurement procedures. the present context of a severe economic crisis certainly needs to be taken into account when analysing and evaluating the situation, but it is equally important to stress the need for a general improvement in the management of subsidies.
in writing. - i voted against the authorisation of the 2009 discharge for the european police college, as suggested by the rapporteur, because i too am not convinced by the unusual procedures adopted during the term of office. i think that more detailed information is needed to enable a more thorough and detailed explanation to be given, which would demonstrate the regularity of the accounts.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by this vote the european parliament has decided not to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2009, but to postpone its decision. our decision is based on the court of auditors' opinion, which expressed reservations about the legality and regularity of the operations on which the accounts of the european police college were based, on the grounds that the procedures for awarding contracts were not in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation. i therefore join the request made to the academy and its board of directors to obtain the communication to the discharge authority, by 30 june 2011, of the actions taken and the improvements made in relation to all irregularities and/or deficiencies that were raised during the course of the procedure.
in writing. − in today's resolution, the european parliament deferred the decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the european police college for the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2009. in its reports on the academy's annual accounts for the financial years 2006 and 2007, the court of auditors expressed a reserved opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on which those accounts were based on the grounds that the procedures for awarding contracts were not in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation. parliament expressed particular concern that the court of auditors had found serious shortcomings in the administrative and financial rules governing the costs of organising courses and seminars, which represent a significant proportion of the academy's operating costs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union because i found the report to be highly accurate, transparent and focused on results.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. as is well known, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit, carried out by the european court of auditors, and the european parliament's discharge procedure. today's vote concludes the financial control procedure by granting discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009 to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, whose accounts have been found to be legitimate and reliable. finally, i would like to congratulate the centre for having submitted to the court of auditors a comparison of the operations carried out during the financial years 2008 and 2009 in order to enable the discharge authority to better assess the centre's performance from one year to the next.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the centre's plan to carry out a mid-term review of its 2008-2012 strategy, but calls on the centre to further develop its performance assessment, improving synergies between strategic actions and those in the work programme and revising the performance monitoring indicators in order to comply with the smart criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the general budget of the european centre for vocational training (cedefop) because it has managed the funds in a high-quality manner and in line with the forecasts made earlier.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in voting today i supported the request for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors, responsible for external financial control, has, after a careful assessment of the centre's budget, declared that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i also welcome the work of the european centre, which was the first to carry out a voluntary pilot audit of the ethics framework in 2009.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution of today, grants the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has declared the transactions underlying the centre's 2009 annual accounts to be legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 landing authorisation for the community fisheries control agency because i appreciated the correctness, clarity and transparency of its budget, and the efficiency brought about by understandable and actionable planning.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have delivered a favourable opinion on the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency. for these reasons, parliament is voting today to grant discharge for the financial year 2009. the agency's budget has been found to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be legal and regular. i would like to stress, however, that there are some shortcomings, particularly in terms of recruitment planning, and i hope that there will be a rapid improvement in the procedures for subsequent years.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the community fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the adoption by the agency of a multiannual work programme for the period 2011-2015 and stresses the importance of this document for the adoption by the agency of effective organisational arrangements for the implementation of the strategy and the achievement of the objectives pursued by the agency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the authorisation of the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the european aviation safety agency because, despite the apparently dubious management of the available funds, the court of auditors found the accounts to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be legitimate and regular. i also agree that the agency should have more precise mechanisms for setting objectives and evaluating results.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote gives discharge to the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2009. financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. clearly, any discharge debate is in a particular context, and today's debate is taking place in the context of the economic and financial crisis, which has created financial and budgetary problems for some member states. in spite of these conditions, i am satisfied with the results achieved by the agency and have therefore voted in the direction indicated by the rapporteur.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has found the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009 to be reliable and that the transactions are, in all relevant respects, legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the european centre for disease prevention and control because the rapporteur was able to identify the issues of greatest relevance to transparency and fairness of accounts, and because i am confident that this important and useful agency can work, at the administrative level, to improve the points highlighted without going back on what has already been done well.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, considering that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2009. clearly, any discharge debate is in a particular context, and today's debate is taking place in the context of the economic and financial crisis, which has created financial and budgetary problems for some member states. i do, however, welcome the work done by the european centre in strengthening european disease surveillance and in assessing and communicating current and emerging threats to human health posed by infectious diseases. finally, i would like to congratulate the centre on its contribution to the measures taken to combat the h1n1 pandemic in 2009.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009. parliament again urged the centre to present, in a table to be attached to the next report of the court of auditors, a comparison between the operations carried out during the year for which discharge is to be granted and those carried out during the previous financial year, in order to enable the discharge authority to better assess the centre's work from one year to the next.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for 2009 in respect of the general budget of the european chemicals agency because the report shows that, despite some shortcomings and imperfections in the accounts, also due to the recent establishment of this agency, it has demonstrated consistent improvements in the controls and budget management.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. today's vote gave the executive director of the european chemicals agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour because, following the audits carried out by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control, it has been established that all the operations carried out by the agency have been carried out in full legality and regularity. finally, i congratulate the agency on the establishment of an internal audit structure (iac) to carry out internal audits and advise the executive director on risk management and internal control systems by issuing independent opinions and recommendations.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the agency's initiatives to strengthen its customer care and feedback procedures. in particular, it welcomes the agency's conduct of a stakeholder survey in 2009 and its increased assistance activities to industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 landfill permit for the european environment agency because i believe that the work done is, in these times, fundamental. i therefore believe that the criticisms that have been raised must be corrected, but without losing sight of the strategic and long-term objectives.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. the vote today gave a discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour because the audits carried out by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have shown that all the operations carried out by the agency have been carried out in full legality and regularity. i also believe that the agency is doing very important work, and i share the efforts recently made to improve public engagement on important environmental issues such as climate change, biodiversity and natural resource management.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament expressly welcomes the agency as a reliable provider of independent and secure environmental information for all union institutions, member states and decision-making bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the european food safety authority because not only has the court of auditors declared the accounts to be reliable and the operations carried out to be regular and lawful, but also because the agency has allocated some of the reserve funds for the implementation of some important projects such as infrastructure, it development and scientific cooperation. however, i believe that further checks on the use of certain items should be carried out and that budget management should be improved in order to reduce the high number of carry-overs.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank all those who have worked on the text and to congratulate the european food safety authority itself, which has respected the need to ensure high quality and independent advice in order to ensure compliance with safety standards and scientific excellence and independence in all matters having a direct or indirect impact on food safety. unfortunately, i must point out that the court of auditors has identified some difficulties in its analysis of the implementation of the 2009 work programme. i therefore join the request to the authority to take the necessary measures to remedy those deficiencies, which, however, did not affect the overall accuracy and reliability of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the authority has presented a comparative table, annexed to the court of auditors' 2009 report, on the operations carried out during the financial years 2008 and 2009, which enables the discharge authority to better assess its performance from one year to the next. parliament also welcomed the fact that the authority had increased the number of thematic and policy documents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the authorisation of the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction as it has managed resources prudently and in line with expectations. however, as the report shows, there are still some improvements that can be made to the management, especially with regard to the management of liquidity and the analysis of reports.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. the vote today gave a discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour on the basis of the report of the court of auditors, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. finally, i think it is very useful that the observatory should set up and manage a computer network for the collection and exchange of information, called the 'european information network on drugs and drug addiction', which would link up the national drug information networks, the specialised centres in the member states and the information systems of the international organisations which cooperate with the observatory.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009. parliament welcomed the initiative of the observatory to run a computerised information gathering and exchange network, the 'european information network on drugs and drug addiction'. it notes that this network links national drug information networks, specialised centres in the member states and the information systems of international organisations cooperating with the observatory.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget for the european maritime safety agency because, despite the previous absence of a multiannual programme and the significant concern caused by the high level of budgetary transfers in 2008, the agency showed management improvements and overall the court of auditors gave a positive assessment of the annual accounts and the underlying transactions.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent work. in today's vote i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. however, i would like to emphasise the court of auditors' finding of a high number of budgetary transfers in 2009 and i join the request to the agency to commit itself to improving its planning and budgetary control in view of the next budgets in order to reduce the number of transfers.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 to be reliable and that the transactions were, on the whole, legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the european network and information security agency because i noted, through the detailed report, the correctness of the procedures adopted and which steps appeared to be opaque.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. today's vote gives a discharge to the european network and information security agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009, thus closing the procedure for 2009. i voted in favour on the basis of the court of auditors' statements that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the 2009 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament stresses that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the european railway agency as, as reported in the report, the management of resources was overall positive. i also agree that some improvements are needed in the area of auditing and budgetary management in order to reduce the still too high level of carryovers and cancellations.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today, the european parliament has given a discharge to the director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. unfortunately, during the control procedures, cancellations and delays in the procurement procedures, recurrent delays in the execution of payments and significant changes to the annual work programme in progress were found. i think that similar problems should be avoided in the years to come. and it is to this end that i welcome the agency's creation of an internal audit structure to provide support and advice on internal controls.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament is concerned that the court has again highlighted cancellations and delays in procurement procedures, recurrent delays in the execution of payments and significant changes to the annual work programme in progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the european training foundation because overall, as the report points out, the management of the accounts and operations is legitimate and regular. however, i am concerned about the lack of transparency in the staff selection procedures and the investigation launched by the european anti-fraud office. i hope that the foundation will take the right steps in this respect in order to improve its performance.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, considering that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2009. of course, every discharge debate has its own context, and today's debate is taking place in the context of the financial and economic crisis, which has created financial and budgetary problems for some member states. despite these difficulties, i welcome the foundation's intention to improve the performance of education and vocational training systems in the foundation's partner countries (turin process) while undertaking a thorough review of its recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work because i believe that, despite some inconsistencies in the management of certain funds and irregularities in a tendering procedure identified by the court of auditors, the overall management has been positive. i also share the court of auditors' observations on the need to improve the planning and monitoring of activities in order to optimise the use of the available appropriations.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, considering that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2009. clearly, any discharge debate is in a particular context, and today's debate is taking place in the context of the economic and financial crisis, which has created financial and budgetary problems for some member states. despite these difficulties, i congratulate the agency on the progress made (despite some mistakes) and the effective work done as coordinator of the network of agencies during the 2009 discharge procedure.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the agency's initiative to launch a forward-looking analysis of the impact of technological innovations on safety and health in 'green' workplaces by 2020. it also notes the collection of data on women's health and safety at work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the euratom supply agency as it has conducted a sound and prudent financial management. i believe, however, that it is necessary, as the report states, to revise the legal position of the agency, since it is still integrated into the commission.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. as is well known, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. the vote today concludes the financial control procedure by granting discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009 to the euratom supply agency, whose accounts have been found to be legitimate and reliable.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament stresses that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the discharge for 2009 in respect of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions because the court of auditors' analysis of the accounts and underlying transactions shows that the foundation has conducted its work correctly, on time and transparently. despite some shortcomings in recruitment and procurement procedures, my view remains unchanged as i believe that there are good prospects for improvement in the future and the will on the part of the institution to put them into practice.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have delivered a favourable opinion on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2009. for these reasons, parliament is voting today to grant discharge for the financial year 2009. i would like to point out, however, that the court of auditors found some errors and anomalies in the evaluation of an open tender procedure, which affected the quality of the procedure itself. i therefore join the call for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions to take steps to improve its evaluation and audit procedures.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament notes that the court of auditors found errors and anomalies in the evaluation phase of an open procurement procedure, which affected the quality of the procedure. it therefore calls on the foundation to take steps to improve its evaluation and audit procedures in order to avoid such errors in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for eurojust because, as the report shows, it has conducted a very positive and transparent management of resources by using many explanatory indicators of the financial situation. i regret, however, that the court of auditors has had to make continuous requests in the field of procurement and recruitment procedures, which have not yet received a proper response or solution.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit function is divided into three areas: internal audit within each institution, external audit by the european court of auditors and a discharge procedure by the european parliament. today's vote gave a discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour as, following the audits carried out by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament notes with satisfaction that the court of auditors does not comment on the level of carry-overs and cancellations of appropriations for 2009 and that the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget should be based more on the agency's performance during the year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the european agency for the management of operational coordination at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) because, as stated in the report, the analysis of accounts and operations is overall positive, regular and legitimate. however, i agree with the report that because of some inconsistencies, opaque procedures and outstanding amounts in the budget, the agency should improve its financial management.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, financial control of the implementation of the community budget takes place at three levels: the commission's internal audit, carried out by the european court of auditors, and the european parliament's discharge procedure. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of frontex's budget for the financial year 2009 as, following the audits carried out by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control, it was found that all the operations carried out were carried out in full legality and regularity.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament notes that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the transactions. calls on the agency to improve its financial management as regards the reimbursement of expenditure incurred by the member states by identifying, together with the member states, the roots of the problem in order to adopt joint solutions;
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge to be given to the budget of the european gnss supervisory authority as it has been well managed in terms of accounting and the data provided are considered to be reliable. however, there are still some inconsistencies in the area of human resources, especially with regard to the staff selection procedures, which are considered to be less transparent. i therefore hope that the authority will endeavour to make improvements in this area.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today, the european parliament has given a discharge to the executive director of the european gnss supervisory authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour on the basis of the assessments and reports by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control, which stated that they had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the european gnss supervisory authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament stresses the shortcomings in the staff selection procedures, which often undermine the transparency of the procedures themselves. notes furthermore that the final budget published by the authority on 31 march 2010 does not reflect the final budget for 2009 approved by the management board and does not include the revenue thereof; it therefore urges the authority to rectify the situation and to inform the discharge authority of the changes made.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the artemis joint undertaking because it has been very well managed financially to be a start-up agency. i therefore believe that in the future improvements can be made and the discrepancies in the budget for this year corrected.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have delivered a favourable opinion on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2009. for these reasons, parliament is voting today to grant discharge for the financial year 2009. the company's accounts have been found to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be legal and regular. however, i think it is useful for the joint undertaking to respond to the call for improving its documentation of it processes and activities, as well as mapping of it risks, and to develop a business continuity plan and a data protection policy.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament underlines that the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various fields of application, in order to strengthen european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new societal applications.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking as, despite the presence of some irregularities in the joint undertaking's balance sheet, i believe that there is room for confidence in the future improvement of the auditing performance of the joint undertaking, as it is still in the start-up phase.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have delivered a favourable opinion on the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009. for these reasons, parliament is voting today to grant discharge for the financial year 2009. the company's accounts have been found to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be legal and regular. however, i think it is useful for the joint undertaking to accept the invitation to complete the implementation of the internal controls and the financial information system, especially given the size of the budget and the complexity of the responsibilities assigned to it.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament considers that, in view of the size of the budget and the complexity of the tasks entrusted to it, the joint undertaking should establish a monitoring committee which would report directly to the management board.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the joint undertaking for the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines because, as the report shows, the joint undertaking has obtained the court of auditors' opinion on the reliability of its accounts and underlying transactions. however, i believe that, while it is partly justifiable to be still in the start-up phase, the company should complete the implementation of its control systems and operate, in the coming years, a more careful and transparent management.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, considering that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i have voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2009. as is well known, each discharge debate takes place in a particular context, and today's debate is taking place in the context of the economic and financial crisis, which has created financial and budgetary problems for some member states. therefore, also with a view to more effective controls, i join the request made to the joint undertaking to request that it include in its financial regulation a specific reference to the powers of the commission's internal audit service as its internal auditor.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines a discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament requests the joint undertaking to include in its financial regulation a specific reference to the powers of the commission's internal audit service as its internal auditor, on the basis of the provisions of the framework financial regulation of the community bodies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2009 discharge for the sesar joint undertaking because the work carried out by this newly created undertaking has convinced the court of auditors of its reliability. the commitment that this institution is making to complete the implementation of the control systems is already well known, but i believe that more efforts must be made in this respect to ensure transparency and reliability of the accounts.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite some shortcomings and irregularities found by the court of auditors in the course of the analysis and evaluation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking, i voted in favour of granting discharge for the financial year 2009. i believe, however, that in order to avoid the repetition of the same errors in future procedures, it is appropriate for sesar to complete and implement internal control mechanisms and a financial reporting system capable of assessing as reliably and correctly as possible the budgetary operations relating to each financial year.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has found the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2009 to be reliable and that the transactions are, in all material respects, legal and regular.
in writing. − i am in favour of the european union's accession to the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area, signed by greece, macedonia and albania, as this park is a natural area of international interest for its geomorphology, ecology, biodiversity and cultural importance. i also share the objectives and principles of the agreement, which are based on the sustainable use of natural resources, attention to the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, and the prevention, monitoring and reduction of pollution of the waters of the prespa lakes.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prespa river basin, which straddles the borders between greece, macedonia and albania, is an important natural site. the agreement the eu will sign will help achieve important objectives for the protection of this area, by protecting the ecosystem and introducing the sustainable use of renewable energy. that is why i shall be voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the european union has well-established legislation on water protection, the most important of which is the water framework directive. under this legislation, where river basins extend beyond european territory, member states are to seek to establish coordination with the third countries concerned which share the river basin district. where coordination takes the form of an international agreement, the participation of the european union as a party is necessary in so far as the agreement concerns matters falling within the union's competence. prespa park is a natural area of international interest because of its geomorphology, ecology, biodiversity and cultural importance. the document adopted today aims to establish cooperation to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the preparation of integrated basin management projects based on international and eu standards. the agreement will contribute to the proper implementation of the water framework directive, to environmental protection, to improving the living standards of the inhabitants of the area and to strengthening good neighbourly relations in a particularly sensitive area of the balkans.
in writing. - i supported the report because the european union must send a strong signal against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. the european union is an important international player in fisheries management issues and as such must support all that concerns compliance with international infringement rules. mrs fraga welcomed the european commission's efforts to adopt resolutions on the basis of the fao recommendations on the agreement on port state control measures. we in the committee have strongly supported the idea of continuing to push for these proposals. illegal fishing is defined as fishing by a registered vessel for undersized species, but also by unauthorised vessels fishing in protected areas or too close to the coast. unfortunately, it also represents 60% of the products that reach our markets and this leads to uncertainties about the quality of the products that reach our markets with difficulties in tracing them. we therefore believe that europe should be an example for all the other countries involved in this sector, which often, by not having to respect certain limits imposed on our fishermen, end up gaining an advantage on the international markets.
in writing. - the lack of available fish resources on a global scale, not just in our seas, is a problem that is becoming more and more pressing. we know that marine life is not only a major source of human food, but also a key factor in the health of the entire ecosystem. it is therefore important that all levels of government, from the regions to the central government, and even the european union itself, use all the means at their disposal to promote regulatory measures and legislative instruments that are geared to the protection of fish stocks, the only guarantee for the long-term sustainability of fishing activities. i voted in favour of this recommendation from parliament to the council to approve on behalf of the european union the agreement on measures of national competence for the prevention and elimination of illegal fishing. this international agreement, if properly implemented by national actors, will be an important tool for the long-term protection of marine fauna and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text presented by mrs estévez, to whom i extend my thanks for the work she has done. i believe that the european union must have all the instruments at its disposal to prevent and combat illegal trade while preserving the fish market, which has always been a solid pillar of the common fisheries policy. it is therefore time to adopt and above all to respect strict rules, to ban the entry of vessels which do not comply with european and international fisheries rules and to ensure that more information is provided on all vessels requesting to enter ports. we must not forget that europe, the third largest fishing power in the world, has been fighting for years to ensure that member states and third countries comply with the rules, in order to guarantee a sustainable fisheries market and to protect the fisheries environment from possible damage.
in writing. − illegal fishing is one of the most serious threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources worldwide. the fight against this form of exploitation is an essential component of the common fisheries policy; the eu must be able to promote international cooperation in this area by participating actively and constructively in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures. in 2001, fao developed an international action plan to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. this action plan, following a holistic approach, provides for a series of actions to be undertaken by flag, coastal and port states. the document adopted today aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing by applying effective measures under the responsibility of the port state, thus ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and marine ecosystems.
in writing. - mr president, the internal market is without doubt the most important instrument available to the european union to promote growth in the wake of the recent financial crisis. the millions of citizens and businesses who benefit from the internal market must be able to exercise their rights and to travel, work and live freely throughout europe. for this reason they must also have effective remedies if they intend to take action against another citizen or undertaking which jeopardises these rights. to date, there are a number of instruments in the european union which allow for the recovery of cross-border claims and the mutual recognition of judgments of national courts; however, an effective right to enforcement of judgments is still lacking. the establishment of an effective regime for the freezing and transparency of the debtor's assets, together with increased cooperation between enforcement authorities in different member states, are the appropriate tools to address these shortcomings. that is why i voted in favour of mrs mccarthy's report.
in writing. − a key component of effective enforcement of judgments is the possibility for judges, as a transitional measure, to act swiftly to freeze and make the assets of debtors transparent. in the absence of such measures, unscrupulous traders and other debtors may escape their liability simply by transferring their assets to another jurisdiction, thereby depriving the creditor of the effective enforcement of the judgment within the single market. this is why it is necessary to create a genuine 28th system, i.e. an autonomous european remedy additional to those available in national courts. this preventive measure will also act as a further deterrent to late payment and will have the effect of making assets transparent in cross-border litigation.
in writing. − millions of businesses operate within the european market and millions of citizens exercise their right to live, work and travel in all member states. it is therefore essential that in the internal market citizens who wish to take action against an undertaking or against another citizen should have the necessary and effective means of redress. within the european union, there are rules allowing for crossborder debt recovery and mutual recognition of judgments of national courts, but often obtaining a judgment is only part of the process. the over 500 million european citizens and businesses must have the right to effective enforcement of judgments. a key component of effective enforcement is the possibility for courts, as a transitional measure, to act immediately to freeze and make the assets of debtors transparent. the report we are adopting today is intended to invite the commission to submit rapidly proposals on interim measures for the freezing and transparency of debtor assets in crossborder litigation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the european commission section, because, despite the difficulty of managing these funds, the result obtained by the court of auditors shows objective improvements. the increased transparency in the audit and the improved performance of all those involved in the management of european funds are the two main reasons which motivate me to support this discharge.
in writing. − pursuant to article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission shall implement the budget and, pursuant to article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, shall carry out these tasks in cooperation with the member states, under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament expresses its favourable opinion on the granting of discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the european union because i find that the management of the funds has been transparent and, overall, effective also in respect of the particular situation in which the european economy has entered during the period of competence.
in writing. - the european parliament, by adopting this report, underlines the fact that the court of auditors has succeeded in producing an increasing number and quality of special reports each year. unfortunately, these reports do not always receive the political attention they deserve, although they are of great importance in the examination, modification and adaptation of programmes and projects, as they can lead to a more effective use of human and budgetary resources. today's text once again underlines the appreciation for the commission's positive attitude and its readiness to act promptly to remedy most of the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in the reports in question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the european parliament's budget because i think that, overall, the resources have been managed in a prudent way. i remain highly sceptical about the division between the three workplaces: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. − the court of auditors' audit of the accounts shows that, for administrative expenditure in 2009, all the institutions made satisfactory use of the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and that the transactions examined were free from material error. on 2 july 2010, the secretary-general certified with reasonable assurance that the budget of the european parliament had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control framework in place provided the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the report we are adopting today gives the president a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted against the authorisation of the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the council because the council refused to answer parliament's questions on this matter and did not provide the essential documents requested by parliament. i therefore support the postponement of the 2009 discharge.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its report today, deferred its decision on the granting of a discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the discharge for 2009 in respect of the general budget of the court as most of the objectives set were achieved in accordance with the budget and detailed and transparent information was provided.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have voted in favour of granting discharge for the 2009 financial year in respect of section v of the general budget of the european union, court of auditors. as is well known, the external audit of the community budget is carried out by the court of auditors itself, so that, as in the two previous financial years, an external firm, pricewaterhousecoopers, was called in to audit the court's budget. the court of auditors was praised for the quality of its annual activity report, which showed that operations and activities were legitimate and absolutely reliable.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2009. parliament expressed concern at the decrease in the level of detail in the court of auditors' specific annual reports on agencies and encouraged the court of auditors to include more complete information in its reports on agencies in the future, in particular as regards the conclusions of the internal auditors' reports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the european economic and social committee budget because, despite the issues raised by the recent olaf investigation, i am confident that we can clarify the lack of transparency and improve reporting procedures for the future.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2009. the european parliament considers that the reports to olaf clearly affect the union's reputation as they concern the internal functioning of one of its institutions, the eesc, and concern a serious case of malfunctioning of its secretariat. it also considers that the disruptive practices identified are not limited to a single case, but may represent constant irregularities which constitute an alleged case of maladministration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for 2009 in respect of the general budget of the committee of the regions because not only has a commendable work been done in the preparation of its annual activity reports, but the techniques for the preparation and collection of information have also been improved and innovated in favour of greater transparency.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank all those who worked on the text and to congratulate the committee of the regions itself, whose audit did not give rise to any significant comments. i would also point out that in 2009 the committee of the regions had commitment appropriations totalling eur 88 000 000 (2008: eur 93 000 000), with a utilization rate of 98,37%, which is higher than the average for the other institutions (97,69%). all the operations and activities carried out by the committee of the regions itself have been carried out in full legality and fairness.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament commends the committee of the regions for the consistently high quality of its annual activity reports and welcomes the inclusion of the follow-up to previous parliament's decisions on discharge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds because, by reading the report, i was able to verify how effectively the resources were managed in relation to the achievement of the prescribed objectives. i also agree with the development priorities and i believe that accounting procedures are the best way of preventing ex ante errors, fraud and misappropriation by those who do not have the necessary qualifications.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds (edfs) for the financial year 2009. i would stress that the european parliament recalls that the edf is not incorporated in the budget of the european union, although it is the main instrument for providing the union's development aid to the people of the african, caribbean and pacific states (acp) and the overseas countries and territories (oct).
in writing. - i voted against the authorisation of the 2009 discharge in respect of the general budget of the european medicines agency because, as reported in the court of auditors' report, certain irregularities were found in the transactions on which the accounts are based, raising some doubts as to the correctness of the use of the funds. i therefore support the postponement of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2009 so that further audits on management can be carried out.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today parliament has decided to postpone the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. it was considered that discharge could not be granted as, following the checks and assessments carried out, the court of auditors raised a number of significant issues. the main concerns are the management of procurement procedures and the criteria used for recruiting staff. i therefore join the request for communications to the agency, which calls on the agency to report to the discharge authority by 30 june 2011 on the measures taken and the improvements achieved in relation to all these concerns.
in writing. − in today's resolution, the european parliament postpones the decision on granting the executive director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament's referral decision is due to the fact that in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009, the court of auditors expressed a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in voting today i supported the request for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors, responsible for external financial control, has, after a careful assessment of the agency's budget, declared that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i think, however, that the request to the agency to make some efforts to improve budget planning and recruitment planning is fully acceptable. in this respect, i commend the commission for its commitment to preventing the shortcomings highlighted by the court of auditors in its report from recurring in the future.
in writing. − the european parliament, by its resolution of today, grants the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. parliament welcomed the agency's intention to improve the planning and monitoring of its contracts in order to avoid the shortcomings highlighted by the court of auditors in the future. it therefore invites the agency to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken in this regard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge to be given to the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, as the accounts and related transactions are considered reliable, as stated in the report. however, there are some inconsistencies due to the fact that the company in question is still in the start-up phase. i therefore believe that, under the commission's careful guidance, the system of auditing and budget management can be improved and that it can complete the implementation of the internal control and financial reporting systems.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european joint undertaking for the iter project and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2009. parliament urged the joint undertaking to amend its financial regulation to take account of the recommendations made by the court of auditors.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, particularly in the light of the amendment which states that 'subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, the right to benefit from the preferential arrangements provided for in article 1 is conditional on pakistan's respect for human rights, including the fundamental rights of workers and the fundamental principles of democracy'. respect for human rights must be a necessary precondition for any kind of agreement with third countries.
in writing. the proposal adopted today follows the unprecedented floods which devastated a large area of pakistan last summer. the final document aims to grant the country autonomous trade preferences in relation to 75 product lines of interest (mainly textiles and clothing), in the form of exemption from customs duties, with the exception of one product, ethanol, for which a tariff quota applies. the proposed measures should be welcomed as a perfect example of the synergies made possible by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the european union and its member states have already generously provided humanitarian aid to pakistan, but the extension of trade preferences to pakistan is part of a wider package of measures to address the medium and long-term economic consequences of the catastrophic floods. ensuring pakistan's recovery and future sustainable development is of utmost importance, not only for its citizens, but also for the security and stability of the region. a stable and prosperous pakistan which does not drift towards extremism or fundamentalism is obviously in the interest of the european union.
in writing. - i decided to support this report by voting in favour, as i believe that during the transitional period rules are needed to ensure legal certainty and to avoid conflicts and legislative gaps. the report by mr schlyter is based on the commission's proposal for a regulation which provides for the exclusive competence of the eu in the field of foreign direct investment, replacing the agreements put in place by the 27 member states, and also provides for a necessary transitional period to be applied to existing bilateral treaties. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that a definite date, marking the end of the transitional period, is important in order to ensure the competitiveness of the european economy and to provide investors with a clear picture of current and future regulatory rules.
in writing. - mr president, with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the member states have unfortunately lost their prerogatives in the management of foreign direct investment, which has become the exclusive competence of the union. such a significant change requires transitional rules to govern its implementation: the report we have voted on today seems to be an acceptable compromise, since it safeguards the agreements already concluded at bilateral level by the various states and also lays the foundations for the signing of possible new bilateral agreements, even if they are agreed. the european commission's powers of assessment are also clearly defined and limited, making the path less tortuous for member states wishing to pursue their specific policy of direct investment abroad. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the european commission's proposal to grant further financial aid to georgia is fundamentally contradictory: it was the commission itself that pointed out that the georgian economy was recovering from the conflict with russia three years ago, suggesting that there was no need to "help" tbilisi with other funds to help the national economy in addition to those already disbursed in recent years. it is therefore not clear why the georgian government is asking for more money and why the commission has immediately taken steps to mobilise almost 50 million euro, which, given the internal political situation in georgia and the problems of legality and transparency in that country, we have no assurance that will be well spent. i am voting against the legislative resolution giving parliament's assent to the granting of eur 46 million to tbilisi; there are many problematic situations in europe, economically, financially, in terms of employment, and many areas facing crisis situations where the institutions could do much more: the commission must first of all concentrate all its efforts on solving the problems of our citizens.
in writing. - the adoption of today's report follows the position expressed at first reading and confirms what the commission has said. the text adopted calls on the commission to submit a new proposal if it intends to amend it substantially or to replace it with a new text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this incident has the merit of having exposed great hypocrisy. the only eu government which has as its minister of the interior a member of a party of what you call populists has been the one which has had the courage to take the most humanitarian measure, that of giving 25,000 tunisians permission to move around. that is because we have established on the ground that these were not 25,000 criminals, but people who had fled tunisia. it was an emergency and therefore we had to approach the situation with common sense and we tried to make a contribution. this shows a truth, and that is that in many situations the real good guys are us bad guys, we who said that we need to control immigration and external borders, we who continue to beg europe - as our colleague cohn-bendit rightly did - to spread those who could become 50,000 or 100,000 refugees on its territory, because the people who are fleeing libya are not criminals. these are the clear words of a movement which defends territory and identity, which is against this immigration because it does not want the uprooting of peoples, which condemns racism and xenophobia but also hypocrisy.
madam president, in recent weeks massive flows of migrants have caused anxiety and reactions among european citizens. some member states have so defined common reflections, which mean that the question of migration flows must be assessed in the best possible way. schengen is now a consolidated heritage of european civilization and as such must be protected and preserved. this does not prevent the temporary re-establishment of borders under certain conditions from being a possible option. compensation mechanisms based on a community-wide approach are therefore needed to ensure that the schengen area is applied in accordance with the expectations of the population concerned. the commission's welcome proposal of 4 may 2011 to make the schengen area more flexible and more coordinated in order to manage internal migration flows smoothly is in this direction. the commission's proposal for a strengthened governance must certainly be given due consideration at a time of particular crisis. i listened with particular interest to president barroso here in brussels and in palermo on regional policies to protect sicily and lampedusa, where boats continue to land that would otherwise be at the mercy of the sea and there would be more deaths. that, madam president, must continue to be borne in mind.
madam president, in our view, to question schengen is to question europe. if europe is weaker still, as the right-wing governments want, it will be easier and easier to ask - as italian interior minister maroni did - whether it still makes sense to remain in europe. the answer is that the community mechanisms should be involved more. in practice, we need more europe, not less europe, and the commission must say so more forcefully. the best europe is the one which saw the people of lampedusa rescue 500 shipwrecked people from certain death in an extraordinary chain of human solidarity on sunday night. the worst europe, if the guardian reports are to be believed, would be one of nato military forces failing to intervene to save men, women and children adrift. if we are clear about what we prefer, commissioner malmström, the commission must succeed in convincing the member states at the european council in june to formulate a european immigration policy, because an à la carte europe would be the failure of the european dream.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am aware that many people would like to propose the expulsion of sarkozy and berlusconi from europe as a solution to save schengen. i think that we can simply strengthen frontex, that is to say make the external borders of the european union more secure. i remind everyone that many governments are currently shirking their solidarity duty to participate in frontex. i would also like to point out another crucial point. behind the humanitarian emergency and the immigration problem lies a political problem. in fact, while europe is very much present on the humanitarian front of immigration - i agree with commissioner malmström - it is absent on the political front of the tragedy behind it. more malmström and less ashton, then, and we shall see that we can somehow improve the difficult conditions in which we find ourselves and guarantee a chance for the future.
, in writing. the problem of migration flows that we are facing in italy and throughout europe cannot be reduced to a humanitarian emergency, however urgent the situation is. we in parliament, who are notoriously responsible for expressing the political will of our citizens and thus for making their demands concrete and assessing their sustainability in the long term, are required to have a global view and to be able to defend it vis-à-vis the other institutions. in the case of immigration policies, the overview starts with an analysis of an ageing european population, albeit in a rather uneven way across the union. a strong imbalance is being created over time between birth and death rates and our growth is also linked to the distribution of the labour force to ensure that the market has the resources necessary to produce everything that is needed continuously. that is why the european parliament should advocate to the other institutions, including the governments of the member states, a holistic approach to the problem of immigration, with the individual at the centre of a recovery, not just economic recovery, which needs the banker as well as the plumber, the engineer as well as the bricklayer.
, in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the current political crisis in the north african region and the resulting migratory phenomena have confirmed the need for a strong european approach to immigration and asylum. immigration is a european challenge that requires not only a rapid and concrete response, but also a common long-term strategy. we may forget that according to the latest un estimates, 12,360 migrants have left libya and arrived in italy and malta since last march, but 700,000 people have already left libya and tunisia with the aim of crossing the mediterranean. without a joint plan for the reception and control of the borders, we risk seeing uncontrolled and disorderly immigration with heavy repercussions throughout europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external borders and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external borders. finally, as regards any changes to the schengen system, such a decision should be taken at european level and not left in the hands of any single country. the member states most exposed to strong migratory pressures must be prevented from running the risk of becoming even more isolated.
, in writing. the arrivals of migrants in lampedusa in recent days show that the immigration emergency is still a topical issue and requires immediate action. it is clear that there is a need to improve governance in the schengen area as set out in the commission's communication of 4 may. this requires a strengthening of solidarity mechanisms in the relocation of asylum seekers, organised mobility and new partnerships with third countries. the revision of the mechanisms for applying the schengen acquis should not be seen as an excuse for arbitrarily restricting the right to free movement, let alone as a stimulus for new opportunities. i hope that very soon there will be concrete proposals to combat prejudice and discrimination, to combat lawlessness, to promote human rights and the dignity of the person, and civil coexistence. effective governance of immigration and the promotion of civil coexistence must be the daily commitment of a good policy which has the ambition to promote development and security. the return of massive flows to countries of origin does not help to maintain the distance between europeans and immigrants. the risk, if any, is to increase irregularity, insecurity and economic costs.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall make a single statement on both questions, which concern the same subject. this debate, and the vote that will follow, marks the end of the work and negotiation period of the working party chaired by mr wallis and composed of colleagues from all the political groups with the european commission delegation, led by mr šefčovič, which resulted in the drafting of a text of agreement for the establishment of a common transparency register. the afco committee drew up this report in a few months, and also rejected a text of amendments to internal regulations. i was personally very surprised by the attention paid by the public to this transparency agreement. i fear that the effects attributed to it are greater than those actually pursued. transparency is the advanced defense of the correctness of political action but it is not the tool that strikes at the heart of corruption. recent incidents of journalists attempting to bribe some mps may also occur in venues other than parliament buildings. on the other hand, those who want to bribe know how to hide their identity, and the records are not an absolute limit. the appropriate instrument is criminal law, and if the member states' criminal law is not sufficient, then we will have to go back to reading articles 82 to 86 of the treaty of lisbon, consider whether it is possible to attribute to the corruption of european parliamentarians the character of a transnational crime or in any case offensive to the financial interests of the union, and consider whether it is appropriate to build a european public prosecutor's office, which would also be an important step on the road to unity. the transparency register has a more modest task. in some countries the term lobbyist has a negative connotation, while in others lobbying is considered almost a semi-public activity because it informs decision-makers about problems they might otherwise not know about. this is particularly important for the european parliament, because the issues which parliamentarians deal with are often very complex and technical, and a balance must almost always be struck between companies and between states with divergent interests. so lobbyists become very useful. we shall no longer call them lobbyists but interest groups. of course, interests can be conflicting and it is good that they are. i have been a judge and i can say that the contradiction between opposing parties is considered a condition for discovering truth and justice. so, whether there are lobbyists or stakeholders with opposing interests is not bad: the important thing is that the judge - and therefore the parliamentarian - retain his freedom of thought, his independence, his honest pursuit of the common good. the transparency register was set up by common agreement between parliament and the commission, and it is hoped that the council will soon join the agreement. the representatives of the interests may freely enter the offices, but must be entered in the register, which contains all the information necessary to identify their legal and financial structure. the register is public. there are also bodies which do not pursue selfish interests but seek to collaborate in european policies in the name of general values, such as churches, parties, regions. the following shall not be entered as such in the register: however, if there are independent offices which are solely responsible for contact with the european institutions, they must be entered in the register, even if they are subject to a different legal regime from that of the stakeholders. as already stated, the new register also involves a change in the regulation, so there are two reports, but it is still a first step towards more complete transparency. some hypotheses are already under consideration and may be converted into rules after more mature reflection, and therefore in particular point 9 of the act approving the agreement indicates the possibility that the reports may include the indication of the stakeholders encountered by members during the preparatory work of the report itself. this wide openness to possible revision makes me express an opinion against amendments which would place constraints on this future reflection. i hope, however, that in addition to the council's support for the short-term agreement, there will be a broad consensus in this parliament immediately, a strong indication of the duty of transparency and also a guide for action. i hope the vote will be almost unanimous.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think mr weber rightly said that the transparency register being jointly managed is something to be proud of because, with the exception of the united states or canada, i do not know of any other place outside the european union where such a lobbies’ register with such parameters as we are going to establish is functioning. here i am also referring to member state capitals. the question that was raised by several speakers, the first being mr groote and then mr häfner, concerned the mandatory register. we, in the working group, are discussing this issue at great length. the problem is that currently we do not see the legal basis that allows us to oblige companies, citizens or interest representatives to register in order to exercise their profession. we, as an eu administration, cannot refuse to deal with such an entity or entities on this basis. therefore we have been looking for ways in which we can turn to the positive motivation of companies, organisations and lobbies to register. i think we achieved a lot because, with the agreement of parliament, we are actually turning this system into a mandatory one. with our joint actions, together with the council, we will increase the reputation and pressure so much that we will see in the next two years how this is to work and it will give us additional experience to have a high-quality review and we will see how we can improve the working of the system further. the calls for appropriate verification as regards financing the activities of those who register: here i can assure you that the commission is already performing random checks on all the registrants that are already in the register and i am sure that these activities will even increase once we manage the register jointly. all those who are in the register should be sure that if there is something inappropriate we will find it, we will criticise it, try to correct it and we will not be afraid to shame those responsible. i was very glad – i am coming back to this because several speakers referred to the importance it – that all three institutions are progressing in this work. i am sure that after this very important opening by the hungarian presidency, we will not waste a minute and we will try to start the interinstitutional talks with the council as soon as possible so we can find, i am sure, a very accommodating manner in which to manage the register together, the three institutions working on this issue with the same goal of increased transparency of european union legislation. the last point that was raised by several speakers and described by mr casini: the transparency register is definitely not a silver bullet or a magical solution to fight corruption. we know very well that high moral standards, ethics, dignity and clear rules are key. but it would certainly serve as a very good instrument and good indicator that those who register are prepared to respect the rules and be transparent, that they have nothing to hide and – this should be the key indicator for all of us – that they should be real partners to work with us and exchange information with us and that they have trust in our future communication.
the president of the council. - mr president, mr commissioner, distinguished members of the house, ladies and gentlemen. allow me to welcome today's debate as a representative of a member state which has had a lobbying law since 2006 and which sees parliament and the commission agreeing on the transparency register. transparency has always been a very important issue for that council. i am very pleased that while we failed to show results in 2008 and 2009, we have now, under the hungarian presidency, really achieved a breakthrough in that the council is ready to monitor the processes and, at some level, as you know, we are still in negotiations, and will be able to link up with this activity. we are therefore ready to discuss how we can contribute, and as i indicated in my opening speech, we are thinking of confirming this readiness in a political declaration in the course of june. so it's not about joining the interinstitutional agreement. and why this formula is being adopted by the member states at this moment, which is - i repeat, a major advance compared to previous years - is that the council, as an eu institution, is not being approached by lobby groups, so there is hardly any precedent for this. these activities are targeted more at member states, member state governments, government bodies. so the council as an institution is not exposed to the same lobbying as the commission or the european parliament. i trust, mr president and mr commissioner, and honourable members, that we will work well together and that after these negotiations we will be able to make this political statement.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few points. i would also like to emphasize very strongly that this agreement was concluded long before the british journalists incident. unfortunately, this is a way of spreading false news through the media. for example, one of the biggest italian newspapers, corriere della sera, today mocks europe by saying that we would have moved late and only after these news events. which is false. this is an unfair way of spreading mistrust of europe. the agreement was reached long before that. the reason why this debate is taking place with some delay is precisely because, once the scandal broke, we asked ourselves whether we could make an attempt to enrich the agreement further; but the text is the same. that's the first clarification. the second concerns the question of compulsory nature. the register is already compulsory. anyone who wants to lobby has to register. i don't know what "required" means. it cannot mean that all companies, enterprises or citizens have to be registered in this register. it's not possible. it is the duty of individual members, if they are approached by someone who wants to put pressure on them, to ask them to register before they address them. the third point concerns possible future changes. there is a working party on this subject, and i think that it should be given the widest possible scope. i agree that it is appropriate to mention the lobbyists we have met during the course of our work, but i do not know whether this is a task for the rapporteur alone or whether the president should also be involved. we are giving the working party the freedom to make any necessary suggestions. finally, i should like to thank both the commissioner, who has made a great contribution to the implementation of this agreement, and the representative of the hungarian government, also for the assurances given about the forthcoming accession of the council, which certainly has its own specificity, because the council certainly represents the second chamber. thus, to provide the council with the register also means to emphasize better that the scheme of europe is constituted by a government the commission a legislative body, made up of both the representatives of the citizens and the representatives of the states. i am aware, however, that there is a specific feature, since the council of ministers represents the member states. i'm sure we'll come to a positive conclusion.
the president of the council. - mr president, mr commissioner, mr manders, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the agreement reached at second reading on the proposal for a regulation on textile fibre names and related labelling of textile products is a very welcome achievement. this would not have been possible without the close cooperation of the three institutions. let me express the council's appreciation to the european parliament for the excellent cooperation we have been able to maintain. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr toine manders, and his colleagues for the extremely valuable work they have done in this process. i also congratulate the swedish, spanish and belgian presidencies, as this successful outcome is the result of their excellent work. the commission has been very constructive and cooperative throughout, and we have to thank them. if all goes according to plan, the council will be able to adopt the text of the regulation in early autumn, and the legislation will thus apply from 2012. this new regulation will make a significant contribution to the functioning of the internal market and will strengthen competition in this important sector. simplifying and improving the current regulatory framework for the development and application of new textile fibres will stimulate innovation in the textile and clothing industry. and fibre users and consumers can benefit from new and innovative products earlier. the hungarian presidency is convinced that the regulation will provide greater legal certainty for economic operators and improve consumer protection in the internal market. the review provision will allow co-legislators to make an informed decision in the future, as the commission will carry out an in-depth study on further mandatory labelling requirements. these may include treatment instructions, standardisation of sizes, indication of country of origin and allergenic substances, electronic labelling and other new technologies. in their draft joint declaration, the european parliament and the council stress the importance they attach to the traceability of textiles and the use of new technologies. we hope that the commission will pay particular attention to these issues in its report. in the meantime, the legislation will allow for the rapid authorisation of new textile fibres. the regulation states that the exact fibre composition must be indicated on the label, but it also introduces a new labelling requirement for non-textile parts of animal origin, as mr manders has indicated, which will allow consumers to make much more informed choices. moreover, the fact that the act has become a regulation will increase legal certainty in this area. once again, congratulations and thank you very much for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr manders, for the work he has done, together with all the other shadow rapporteurs and the committee, to reach an agreement after difficult negotiations. i think it is absolutely important that this agreement be reached at second reading, because it will enable citizens and businesses to benefit more quickly from the new fibres and the new innovative products that will result from them and enable national administrations to reduce costs. i would like to thank parliament once again for its contribution to the interinstitutional debate through the amendments which have been tabled, some of which have particularly highlighted the political dimension and the interest of consumers in the matter. in fact, at the first reading, adopted by a large majority in parliament, the need to relaunch a broad debate on the labelling of textile products, including the question of the mark of origin, was underlined and it was proposed to extend the scope of the regulation to certain sectors. as you all know, the negotiations with the council in the months that followed required flexibility on the part of all in order to find workable solutions for the institutions. i believe that the agreed text is a balanced compromise which complements many of the amendments tabled by parliament and leaves room - this is a very important factor, as mr győri emphasized in his speech - for further developments in the near future. in the short term, as soon as the new regulation enters into force, consumers will have more information on the presence of animal parts in textiles and will also be able to use information on the complete composition of textile products. another immediate result of the new regulation is simplification, as the commission will replace a detailed technical annex of over 50 pages with european standards. but, more importantly, the immediate results of this regulation are not the final stage of the procedure. on the contrary, they are a starting point for further analysis and improvement of the legislation. in the short term, the text of the new regulation establishes a global review clause which calls on the commission to provide, if necessary, for further labelling obligations in this area. the commission will therefore present appropriate legislative proposals in the areas where further harmonisation is needed. it is my intention - and i am now making a commitment to the european parliament - to tackle this review immediately and thoroughly. we are already preparing the work to consult consumers on some fundamental questions, namely: the type of information that is important and how it is to be made available; how technological developments, such as e-commerce, affect the way textiles are purchased; how the growing requirements for traceability, sustainability and corporate social responsibility are affecting the textile fibre market; how we can best use the technologies available in the digital age; how can we, as the institutions of the european union, adapt our legislation to the growing ethical, social and environmental needs of citizens? mr president, these are just some of the issues on which work has already begun. as you can imagine, the trademark will certainly be one of the main priorities and central elements of our work. the review will therefore be an opportunity to reaffirm my support for the trademark of origin and to clarify once and for all the question of 'made in', a necessary tool for the competitiveness of european businesses and the health of the citizens of the union. we will look at this in depth in order to provide clear rules to avoid misleading information and to facilitate responsible consumer choices when purchasing the product. as rapporteur manders has said, the commission will also assess the link between allergies and chemicals used in textiles. a specific analysis carried out in this area can indicate how best to use existing legislation, for example reach. let me explain briefly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the textile industry is not affected by the new rules. the review clause - and i thank the council again for stressing its importance and for its willingness to work with the commission immediately to complete the regulation - provides that the commission will present a report, followed by a legislative proposal if necessary, by 30 september 2013. it is my firm intention to try to get ahead of time and for that reason i have already instructed my services to start working.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached agreement on this important matter, thanks to a great effort on the part of everyone to find a common ground between the differing positions of parliament and the council. my aim was, is and will be to get binding rules on the indication of the origin of textile products adopted, because consumers and businesses must be absolutely protected. i think that the compromise reached today is a very good result. i have called on my colleagues to fight with the council, and i use the word 'fight' not for nothing because the negotiations have not been easy at all. we have fought not only for the achievement of made in but also and above all for traceability. the latter is a key element of consumer information before the purchase of the product. today, european consumers find textile products on the market with the indication made in italy, germany, france, when in reality they were made almost entirely elsewhere. we also call for the use of new labelling technologies, such as microcheap and rfid, to combat counterfeiting of products. it is true that we have widened the scope of the proposed regulation because we believe that the textile sector needs greater protection in the short term. the joint declaration, which will be adopted by parliament and the council, shows the importance of traceability and indication of origin. i do not hide the fact that this reversal of the council's course gives me confidence for the future. we look forward with great interest to the study requested from the commission, which i thank again for its cooperation, and i also warmly thank the commissioner for his commitment to advance the timetable because the textile sector is urgent. we cannot ignore the legitimate need of our citizens to have accurate information about the product. we are all consumers, after all, and achieving this is certainly in everyone's interest.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under discussion, which is intended to replace three directives which are now obsolete, concerns the labelling of textile products put into circulation in the european community and the registration and designation of the substances in them. the first reading approved a text which provided for the labelling of the designation of origin and the obligation to provide the full composition of the product. unfortunately, the council's position was contrary to the text approved by parliament, in particular against any reference to made in and the introduction of traceability in the labelling of textile products. the imco committee, while approving the measure at second reading, accepted a text which we are not satisfied with because it does not provide for the mark of origin. we shall therefore vote against this proposal, since the aim of giving consumers correct and accurate information on the origin and composition of the product has not been achieved.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this new regulation on the labelling of textile products, which we shall be voting on tomorrow in the plenary, europe is achieving an objective it has been pursuing for years, even if it can only be considered as a first step towards that comprehensive legislation aimed at protecting all european consumers by means of the indication of the country of origin and the adoption of a new and precise traceability mechanism. i welcome the call on the european commission to draw up a legislative proposal for the adoption of new, more accurate and comprehensive labelling systems containing more information on the characteristics and origin of textile products imported from third countries and sold in the european union, thus protecting consumers from false, improper and misleading claims of origin. i hope that it will encourage innovation in textiles and clothing, making it easier for consumers to benefit from innovative products. the proposal also provides support for european manufacturing industry and a guarantee for its action in the world context. the european parliament is sending a positive signal to the governments of the 27 member states to give their consent to the introduction of traceability of textile products, providing final consumers with more complete and truthful information than the current made in legislation and avoiding their being misled. it is now necessary to extend the regulation on the labelling of textile products to all other commodity sectors, coordinating the various legislative proposals among themselves and insisting that not only those on fibres and textile products but also the general regulation on made in approved last october in strasbourg be adopted by the council as soon as possible. the timeframe as the commissioner has already stressed, 30 september 2013 is too long: we therefore trust in your stated commitment to shortening them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we thank the president of the commission and commissioner tajani for their efforts, we as the northern league are absolutely and totally dissatisfied. it seems like a surreal debate. this is a con, a solemn con. some enthusiastic colleagues on the left are proposing that we agree on uniform sizes, while we do not know the origin of the products worn by consumers. to the face of the free market! i would like to see the surreal debate this tuesday evening, held in a half-empty hall, heard by a few thousand producers who have survived the crisis in the sector. i understand the logic of the compromise, but the current text distorts the text which was adopted by a large majority at the first reading. it was a balanced text which took account of the needs of both producers and consumers. then there was a complete debacle: i understand that only two member states out of 27 have asked that the consumer know the composition of the clothes worn and the hungarian presidency of the council has been a merchant's ear! is this not yet another demonstration that this europe is light years away from the interests of its citizens, whether they are producers or consumers?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a regulation is to be welcomed because it helps to simplify and harmonize the different legislative provisions of the member states. this is consistent with the commission's proposals on smes and strategies to boost european competitiveness in the manufacturing sector. in addition, this regulation implicitly rewards product innovation and promotes greater transparency in the procedure. however, i would like to point out that the compromise reached with the introduction of the review clause and the joint statement by parliament and the council on the indication of origin - which i am not unaware of its political significance - could set a precedent and jeopardise the outcome of the difficult negotiations between the commission, parliament and the council on the complex issue of the non-eu origin mark, which parliament voted on in first reading last october and which does not only concern textile products. it is time for the council to take note once and for all of the democratic will represented in this house by the majority of members. however, despite these reservations, we shall vote in favour of the proposed regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while this report contains useful provisions to simplify and harmonize the matter, it also gives rise to my displeasure that it has not been possible to include a reference to the trademark of origin in the text. this measure would have been of fundamental importance for the textile sector and a guarantee for european citizens and consumers. our main competitors, such as the united states, japan and even china, have long applied a similar standard to imported products. europe - and the reason for this is not well understood - seems to regard this question as completely irrelevant and superfluous. but the point is not to be overlooked. the commission has also proposed that the labelling of products be accompanied by a statement of the origin of the products. just last week in my city of prato, over 73,000 counterfeit items were seized, most of them textile products. counterfeiting, imitations, low-cost far eastern productions, and so on and so forth. our textile and manufacturing industries are on their knees and europe is deaf to our every demand. the lack of a mark of origin is unfortunately only the latest bad finding. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i would like to ask my colleagues in the northern league what their party has done during the negotiations and the trilogue, since i myself and the european people's party have asked for their active participation. it is right to criticize, but it would be better to work together to achieve concrete results and not just to launch slogans.
mr president, at the first reading in committee a completely different text was adopted, including the certificate of origin of the product. it is not clear why the european council and the commission have given in on this point: we are not going to give in, and we are voting against the report precisely because of the lack of a certificate of origin.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all here to assess a text which undoubtedly contains some gaps, because i believe that - as is often said in this house - we would all have liked something more ambitious, but we are all aware that we are on the right track. it is clear that a clear system of mandatory labelling on all garments allows for greater control and makes it possible to combat fraud and illegality more effectively. the fact that the text includes the obligation to label those linings of animal origin rather than textile origin was unanimously welcomed. we hope that this will help to combat the huge trade in dog and cat fur for clothing which is illegally brought into our market. we would have liked a more ambitious plan with recognition of the place of origin or at least that the place of origin should be included immediately for products coming from third countries which are notoriously not complying with any rules or regulations to protect consumers, workers, the environment and children - rules and regulations which are now established practice in europe and constitute the real guarantee for our consumers and our citizens. i would like, however, that we all be aware that this is a battle to be won together and in unison, because - as mr comi has said - this is a fight that started long ago and on which we are making an important point today. the consultations with consumers which the commissioner has undertaken to carry out will be a fundamental step forward, not only for the textile sector but also for all sectors in which the desire of citizens to know their place of origin has been called into question many times in this house. i assume that the place of origin will be the first priority in the consumer's preferences and i would like to take this opportunity to inform all my colleagues who have worked on this important text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for the excellent work he is doing. we must regain stability and confidence, and i believe that the effort is immense. in a legislative framework for crisis management, the commissioner is finding the tools for a range of preventive measures as well as managing what is already in place. we must be careful and resist the bureaucratic attempt to create bodies, agencies or other instruments which can complicate future life. a coordinated approach within an overall legal framework of the european union is a prerequisite for preventing problems and future financial crises and for enabling banks to operate in a more orderly and equal manner throughout europe. i believe that in order to ensure transparency, regulators should be continuously working to develop standard rules and methodology. however, it is important to ensure that the results are also published. the year 2010 clearly demonstrated the sensitivity and importance of publication of results with regard to consistency; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a matter for particular attention and serious consideration.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of european foreign and security policy is even more crucial at this particular moment in history, marked by an extraordinary wave of protest that has taken hold in the mediterranean and is also spreading to the middle east. with this serious crisis affecting the whole of the southern mediterranean and spreading to the arabian peninsula, the european parliament must be a sounding board for all the popular voices who are clamoring, at the risk of their own lives, for an improvement in conditions and the start of the democratization process, dismantling the current regimes. our assembly wants to be a leading interlocutor with the high representative/vice-president, lady ashton, also and above all for the function of budgetary control in civil and military missions in the cfsp and esdp. the first part of the report develops with particular reference to the relationship between the european parliament and the institutions, the council and the commission in particular, taking as its starting point the post-lisbon approach to european policy. the european union's multilateralism is also very important, taking advantage in particular of the newly created european external action service, which has finally become a reality. in this respect, i can only express my satisfaction at the recent resolution of the united nations general assembly which, by implementing what was enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, recognises the european union as an observer in its security council. we have tried to give an outline as close as possible to the present situation, highlighting in the report, as it should be, the great wave of civil unrest in tunisia, egypt, libya, and also syria, bahrain and yemen, distinguishing, for each of these states, destinies, contexts and expectations, and other issues of particular interest, such as the strong transatlantic alliance and the relations of enormous importance with russia. enlargement, support for civil rights and the establishment of the rule of law, diplomatic relations with the bric countries, the arab-palestinian conflict and condemnation of the most bloody regimes are some of the themes of the report which i put to your vote.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam high representative/vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the common security and defence policy is at a very delicate moment. just when the evolution of the international system requires the european union to become a credible actor in security and defence; the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's role in the international financial system is based on the following principles: in short, just when a qualitative leap in the common security and defence policy has become necessary and possible, the european edifice seems to be cracking dangerously and the risk of a drastic reduction in the ambitions and possibilities of the csdp is becoming real. the report i am presenting attempts to deal with this contradiction and to suggest possible answers to the other institutions. on the libyan crisis, we do not limit ourselves to expressing disappointment at the eu's inability to define a position and take joint action and at the limits placed on the 'eufor libya' mandate. we believe that the time has come for a european political initiative which, in concert with the other partners, aims to promote a ceasefire and negotiations that will put an end to the gaddafi regime and initiate a democratic and inclusive transition. it is clear that nato's military intervention will hardly be decisive and it is good that it should scrupulously respect the mandate of the un resolution, avoiding a disproportionate use of force. at the same time, we look forward to the effective use of psdc assets to provide humanitarian support to the civilian population under attack and to the planning of future operations to support the development of democracy in libya. but the libyan situation also calls for wider reflection and i believe it reinforces the report's recommendations. it is clear that the main responsibility for the future of europe, its security and defence lies with the european council, its members and also its president, who is responsible at that level for representing the union in foreign and security policy. we are telling them clearly that bilateral cooperation and voluntary coalitions cannot replace the csdp as a policy of the union. the argument that this policy should be renationalized is not convincing to us, not because we are purists of the treaty but because such a renationalized policy would be inadequate in the face of the challenges we are facing. we call on the european parliament to engage in a strategic dialogue with the european council, inviting it to discuss parliament's recommendations, to draw up a real foreign policy strategy and to hold an extraordinary meeting on european security and defence. we ask you, mrs ashton, to intensify your efforts to build consensus among member states and to use your multiple functions to strengthen coherence between the csdp, the cfsp and the other aspects of the union's external action. the report makes a number of proposals on the role of the external action service, starting with a crisis management board, which is capable of offering a genuine integrated response to crises, and we are pleased to see that this is beginning to emerge. the libyan affair also confirms the inadequacy of european military capabilities, well below the high level of national defence budgets as a whole. it is quite clear that only unity makes strength. pooling, sharing, strengthening the defence agency, permanent structured cooperation, developing an efficient and competitive european defence market, strengthening the industrial and technological base and enhancing common command and control capabilities, the inadequacy of which has contributed to the failure of a timely european response to the libyan crisis, starting with the establishment of a permanent operational headquarters. on this and other topics, such as the integration of external and internal security policies, which respects the primacy of the community method, the report makes a number of concrete proposals. it is noteworthy that the main pro-european political groups are united on this point, and i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the coordinators for this fruitful cooperation. the european parliament is ready to support the development of a csdp fully integrated into the union's external action and rooted in european values and principles. we expect you, mrs ashton, to give us convincing answers in words, but above all in deeds.
madam president, mr ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks on coptic churches in egypt and the killing of worshippers show a growing religious intolerance, which betrays the spirit of unity in tahrir square, where copts and muslims demonstrated together against the regime. this lack of tolerance makes it impossible for people to live together and for social stability to prevail, which is essential for an orderly transition to democracy. the authorities in cairo must therefore be more committed to protecting minorities and to combating salafist extremism, which is a denial of the principles of modern democracy to which the egyptian people aspire. economic development, the resumption of foreign investment and, above all, tourism, are unthinkable without tolerance, order and stability. it is therefore in the interests of egypt and the world that europe grants generous aid, but this must be conditional on an effective policy of protecting minorities, in line with the principle of 'more for more' which you, the high representative, proposed together with commissioner štefan füle.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high commissioner, you have a very difficult job and a heavy burden on your shoulders. i hope you will not take my questions as provocation but as a contribution to your reflection. baroness ashton, at the end of our joint debate we shall be voting on the report on the role of the european union in multilateral organizations. two years ago, at the hearing before her inauguration, i asked her what her position was on the european union's single seat at the un. he said he hadn't had time to think about it. the muñiz de urquiza report contains the millán mon amendment which sets out parliament's position on this subject. what's yours today? have you had time to think about it in the last two years? the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. the european union is present in iraq with two officials and an ambassador. three people operating out of the british compound. rightly, you would like to find resources to resolve the situation. i would point out to you, to help you, that there are seven european union officials in the bahamas. what is so infinitely more decisive for the fate of the european union in the bahamas than baghdad? and would it not be better to be in baghdad on the 17th, as we are about to sign the first eu-iraq agreement in post-saddam history? perhaps to resolve the camp ashraf tragedy on the spot, which i am sure, with your personal intervention, could easily find a positive solution? mrs ashton, you have already spoken on the subject of the egyptian copts: but not only has the persecution continued, it is now a disturbing element of the scenario called the "arab spring". the foreign service reports continue to speak of extremist conflict. but in egypt only christians die and only churches are burned. what is to prevent us from recognizing the truth, calling it by its name and freeing the copts from their uncomfortable role as hostages of a fundamentalist political project?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the turbulence which is changing the political geography of the southern shore of the mediterranean, with its burden of uncertainties and hopes, is increasingly challenging europe and its foreign policy, and it is on the basis of what is happening that it should be increasingly essential for the european union to be able to count on a consolidated and coherent foreign policy, capable of governing a difficult present and planning a problematic future, which will modify international relations and profoundly change the world. in the face of the strategic repositioning of countries such as the united states, china and russia and the growing shortage of raw materials and energy resources, europe should play a very important and decisive role, but it is quite clear that it is coming to these meetings unprepared. the commission has been too slow to coordinate the foreign and domestic policies of its member states for some time. there is no substantial progress. the fact that the european union has not yet been able to take action on the basis of the maastricht treaty is a sign of the weakness of its foreign policy and of the perversity with which some countries, nostalgic for a colonial period that can never return, insist on believing that they can best protect their interests by acting alone and by delegating nothing to the european authorities. we have to move on. baroness ashton, you have an important role to play, and you will play it to the end, knowing that time is running out.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank baroness ashton for her report today. i would like to point out to the baroness that, unfortunately, the european union is not perceived by european public opinion. our foreign policy - as many colleagues have also pointed out - is still in its infancy, as can be seen from some of the events of the past few days. europe cannot be absent from the ashraf camp: it is a field in which not only international politics but also the protection of human rights are measured. in this part of the world, it is our duty to intervene, as in syria. the latter country is experiencing a very serious situation, where human rights and the possibility of opposing a dictatorial government must be seen by the european union as a concern ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. - mr president, in my first speech i had four minutes and i used two of them. i ask that, now that i have two minutes, i may use four of them for the final intervention.
no, in the first intervention i had spoken for two minutes and i had four minutes...
since i cannot say what i have to say in two minutes, i will withdraw my speech.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that president albertini is right because, as rapporteur, he had four minutes for his speech and two minutes for his reply. so let me remind you that you should have your four minutes. i think that this was a useful and important debate, which shows how united parliament is and how ready it is to offer its support for a coherent and effective european external action. we have not only heard complaints about the obvious limitations of europe in recent times, but also proposals which offer a kind of strategic partnership between parliament and the other institutions for a europe which is a credible actor in security and defence. i believe that this partnership is not only an opportunity but also a necessity because - if what we are saying is true, namely that europe's integrated approach represents its main potential - to achieve this integrated approach we need the support of a body with considerable legislative and budgetary powers. i think that this is another reason why we should find a balanced solution to the question of interparliamentary cooperation. the debate has made it clear what we must do. the possibilities offered by the treaty must be exploited: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis. it is also necessary to build on existing structures, starting with the external service, and to set ambitious targets in terms of capacity. of course, you also have to be able to offer leadership. we thank the high representative ashton for her commitment and for the important statements she has made. it's nice to think, as you said, that a small group can build great things: but europe is a great civil power which cannot shirk its responsibilities.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during a hearing in the afet committee, there was an insidious question from a colleague to the high representative/vice-president, who said that kissinger, when criticized for the isolationist stance of the united states, especially towards the european union, would reply: 'there is no fellow foreign minister and no telephone to which i can turn to talk to europe'. the colleague asked baroness ashton: "is there now a foreign secretary and a telephone to call?" his answer, very british, was: "yes, i am the one who is doing this, although i am called high representative/vice-president and not foreign minister. there is also a telephone, but it answers an answering machine, indicating to number one the british position, to number two the french position, to number three the german position, and so on. 'mrs ashton, you have listened to many of my colleagues and my report also contains this message. you have more say in the world, but our voice is heard more, that of parliament, because we are supporting a european policy and not just that of the member states, to which you respond in the council, or that of the commission, to which you respond in the appropriate places. i wish there was a third place where you could express your third loyalty. this is the place in the middle of this house, behind the podium, because you are the council, the commission and also the parliament. i believe that for democratic legitimacy of foreign policy, directed and controlled by the european citizens, it is necessary that this dialogue develops and strengthens. we will help you to do this.
the vote will be taken by roll call on paragraphs 36, 2 and 37.
mr chichester, what i will retain from this intervention is what i assume is your approval of my unorthodox ways. – πριν από την ψηφοφορία επί της παραγράφου 33, αρχικό κείμενο:
the rapporteur. - mr president, i need not quote him: the following shall be inserted in the explanatory statement of vote: it starts with "welcomes" and ends with "manner". you can read it in the text.
the rapporteur. - the text is again included in the voting list. just one observation: the theme is about the protest against the sentencing of protesters in bahrain and the censorship for this behavior.
mr albertini, no, it is the oral amendment to amendment 7 after paragraph 45.
the rapporteur. - i misread the text. we have removed the word 'macedonia' to avoid offending certain sensitivities, including, i believe, the president's. so, only the expression 'former yugoslav republic of macedonia' remains. we have removed the word "macedonia".
the answer to this question is that the ability to speak greek is required by meps. (applause and laughter)listen. i can do this extremely slowly but this is how this goes, dear colleagues, i have not changed the way i do the votes every time. as you know, all the interpreters have a voting list in front of them. if they do not, they should. it does not depend on how fast or how slowly a president announces in whatever language the numbers, the interpreters have the list in front of them. at any rate i will try to be a little slower if that would make it better. is that ok?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i beg your pardon. i do not want to be mistaken but i do not remember voting for the oral amendment to paragraph 68. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we should therefore vote on it.
mr lisek, excuse me but the oral amendment has fallen because we have adopted amendments to paragraph 71, so i am sorry to say that we cannot vote on this. the paragraph has changed according to the amendment we have filed.
rapporteur. − mr president, the oral amendment reads as follows. the original text recognised that ‘nato constitutes the foundation of collective defence for those member states which belong to it’ and here is the addition, ‘and reaches beyond its member states’.
colleagues, under our rules and our practice, granting roll-call votes or not is in the hands of the president every time. the president may grant a roll-call vote if he feels it does not disrupt the session, or, for example if there are many requests, he may ask the house. there is no particular rule one way or another. i just want to make this clear to everyone so that we do not set any precedent here that was not intended to be set. under the circumstances, nevertheless, i have no objection to granting the request in this particular case, but i would very much like to ask members not to abuse this potential because, if they do, then the president will ask the house every time and there will be contentiousness where there should be none. if you insist on your request, i will take every one of these as a roll-call vote. λήξη της ώρας των ψηφοφοριών.
mr president, i voted in favour of the textile labelling report because i think europe can and must do more to support the companies in the sector. the commission's proposal was purely technical and aimed at simplifying the existing labelling provisions. but this parliament has achieved two important things. the first: textile products derived also from products of animal origin fur and leather will have to include this information on the labels so that consumers can make an informed choice. the second: the european commission will have to present an impact study on the introduction of labelling by 2013, which will clearly indicate which garments have been produced in europe and which ones have a non-european origin. the latter is a decisive milestone for the competitiveness of european textiles in europe and the world.
mr president, the proposal for a regulation on which we are called upon to vote certainly has the merit of bringing together all existing legislation on textiles into a single text. this regulation will simplify and improve the existing legislative framework for the development and use of new fibres, support the development of innovative products and promote innovation in the textile and clothing sector. i appreciate that mr manders has also taken into account other aspects, such as the reduction of the administrative burden for the member states in transposing the national legislation on the technical adaptations required by the inclusion of the names of new textile fibres in the so-called 'harmonised list'. although i noted that we could have done more by introducing a specific article regulating the indication of the origin of textile products, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation.
mr president, this regulation is vital for the european textile industry because it guarantees a free market with rules that prevent the irregularities and illegalities of the past. we welcome the decision of the institutions to accept the proposal and to look into the problem of traceability and origin of products, in order to ensure that european consumers are properly informed even if the time limits are too long. the aim is ultimately consumer protection. i would remind you that last october parliament voted by a very large majority in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries, including textiles, but to date the council has not opened negotiations or discussions with parliament, even informally. i thank the hungarian presidency for making this a priority, but i ask that the comparison be speeded up, otherwise there is a risk that european consumers will be protected in the food sector but not in the manufactured sector.
mr president, the report on the labelling of textile products which we have supported today is an important step towards legislative simplification for the benefit of consumers and all european producers in this sector. this regulation establishes new rules for labelling in the textile sector, with increasing attention to innovation in the sector and to an accelerated integration of union legislation, so that innovative products can be safely used. the text proposes to unify the three composition labelling directives into a single regulation, simplifying the existing regulatory framework and improving the transparency of the procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at the same time, however, the question of the indication of the country of origin cannot be ignored. we hope that a further step forward can be made soon by adopting rules governing the indication of origin in this sector too.
mr president, quality, labelling and traceability: these are the consumer protection instruments that guarantee excellent products. until now, europe has been the only market in the world without legislation on this matter, which has put it at a disadvantage vis-à-vis its main trading partners. today the european parliament is making its voice heard by voting a regulation to protect the excellence of european textiles. our products and manufacturing must be defended, especially in a time of economic crisis such as the one we are going through. so far, we have been able to make our mark through research and innovation, which has enabled the production of innovative textile fibres. consumers will no longer be at risk of purchasing textile products that are potentially hazardous to health because they may have been treated with chemical agents. the adoption of this regulation finally guarantees the right protection of the rights of over 500 million european citizens, who will no longer be able to be deceived by false information.
mr president, making the way in which decisions are taken easily verifiable for the citizens, as well as the processes, elements and resources that have influenced them, helps to ensure a high degree of transparency and to bridge the gap between the european institutions and the citizens, which is often mentioned in connection with the legitimacy and the so-called democratic deficit of the european union. a great deal of progress has already been made in recent years. just think of the register of interest representatives, adopted by the european parliament in 1996, or the commission's proposal to the european parliament in 2006 for a single register for lobbyists. the adoption of the stubb-friedrich report by this house has led to the creation of a joint working party. we can say that the results achieved by this group, in relation to the objectives set by parliament, are more than satisfactory. i fully agree with mr casini's report, because the transparency of political institutions is an essential condition for legitimacy. that is why i supported the proposal.
mr president, there is no doubt that this regulation is an important step in the process of putting the european institutions at the centre of attention. more transparency, more publicity, more transparency in behaviour and accessibility of information and, finally, the formation of a common transparency register. if we consider that the lobbying discipline in the united states of america was established as far back as 1948, we realize that they certainly play a role and, although they are mainly the bearers of mainly selfish interests, they must be taken into account. this is a draft report which looks to the future and, while not a starting point, is certainly a way of defending the correctness of the activities and decisions of the european institutions. that is why i voted in favour, convinced of the absolute importance of this path.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for the alde group, i am fully satisfied with the result achieved by today's vote. the arsenis dossier on forest protection is a flagship report, a basis for how the european parliament intends to tackle the protection of our forest heritage and the adaptation of forests to climate change. the european parliament has clearly expressed its views today, and we await the commission's proposals in the light of these, so that we can define the sectoral policies in greater detail. i would like to thank mr kriton arsenis in particular for his expertise and serious work, which has been developed through a long and not easy discussion because, as we know, the situation of forests is not the same in all the member states. nevertheless, we have found common ground and have also achieved particular objectives, such as the removal of certain areas from the speculation of building or the greater protection of forests of great value for biodiversity, such as those in the northern boreal and mediterranean regions, and a ban on building on land affected by intentional damage. mr president, as i have said, this is of great importance for many mediterranean countries, including your own greece.
mr president, i should like to say at the outset - and i hope that my time will not be taken away - that, as far as hypocrisy is concerned, there are very few of us left who believe in certain things. each of us intervenes with statements of vote after the votes: we'll be about five or six, we'll listen to each other and maybe we'll be picked up by the tv. but it's all really quite sad. i would therefore like to suggest - and i will certainly do so at the next meeting of the epp group - that the explanations of vote should be made before the vote, so that perhaps by talking and listening to each other we can also convince each other how to vote, rather than submitting to some kind of pre-defined team play. that said, i announced in my statement that i had voted in favour. i still believe in this europe, just as i still believe in the effectiveness of the presence of a high commissioner. i still think, however, that the member states believe in it much less than we do. it is perhaps appropriate to note, as i said to mrs ashton this morning and on other occasions, that if europe does not stop being partly economic and instead becomes more political, our role will probably not be as effective as it should be.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report for its moderate approach to the most pressing issues in the common foreign and security policy. thanks to the socialist group’s amendments, a more constructive language for the dialogue on russia and iran has been achieved. the amendments on the eu strategy on afghanistan also contributed to improving the structure of the report. the albertini report is a step forward towards a better eu security policy. while i support the efforts and the commitment of the rapporteur, i should also stress that the eu is still far from having a coherent long-term strategy in this area. the eu contribution to global peace and stability is still quite small and still depends too much on the usa’s vision of international security and on the ‘needle approach’ to the same issue. let us work for a more autonomous, eu-centred foreign and security strategy, because that is what european citizens expect from us and that is what we should deliver to them.
mr president, the most significant document on the eu security strategy was delivered by xavier solana. it is entitled ‘a secure europe in a better world’ and was adopted by the european council on 12 december 2003. since then, little progress has been made in this field. the union still lacks an effective strategy for its foreign security and on most relevant issues still follows the lead of the united states. this report tries to introduce some positive changes on tactical topics like crisis management, the fragmentation of the eu defence technological industrial base, and the ineffectiveness of the 24 eu security and defence missions around the world. i voted in favour of it, and i hope this parliament will continue to make a contribution towards the goal of enhancing eu strategic autonomy in security affairs. in particular, what we need is a redefinition of the major threats to our security after the collapse of the so-called islamic terrorist threat and the emergence of new dangers like the financial crisis.
the eu is still a very limited global actor; its role in the un system and in all multilateral organisations does not match its democratic, economic and cultural weight. this report addressed this deficit and calls for removing some obstacles to the full participation of our union to the global context. this is the reason why i voted in favour of it. the eu can make a powerful contribution to the peace and prosperity of our planet. let us allow its civilian power to expand its influence everywhere.
in writing. - this directive on labelling or marking to identify the lot to which a foodstuff belongs cannot but be welcomed, also because too often the criminal world falsifies codes for illicit purposes. the grouping and simplification of all the existing regulations on terms or marks can only facilitate controls and the detection of any abuses.
in writing. - this directive on the protection of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors in narrow gauge tracks when they are overturned is to be welcomed. the grouping and simplification of all the existing regulations on this subject is an important step which will help to protect those who use agricultural equipment on a daily basis.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report because it aims to protect the operator who uses the agricultural machinery, since the controls must be easily accessible and not present a danger. they must be designed and arranged, or protected, in such a way as to preclude any involuntary movement or other manoeuvre dangerous to the operator.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report as it aims to regulate and simplify the legislation on the braking of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. in order to protect and safeguard the operator of agricultural or forestry tractors, machinery should be type-approved in accordance with ec provisions.
in writing. - it is essential to codify in a way that is comprehensible and accessible to the public the rules on the manoeuvring space, the driver's seat and the dimensions of the doors and windows of agricultural tractors in order to ensure safety. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the report also promotes the simplification and clarity of community legislation, not least because, as in the case of excise duties, there are innumerable scattered provisions which have been amended on several occasions. unifying and making them comprehensible can only be useful for operators and users alike. our vote is in favour.
in writing. - the resolution adopted today fully endorses the position expressed by the commission as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the advisory group considered that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. − in january 2009, the commission adopted the proposal for a new regulation on textile names and labelling of textile products. the proposal, which aims to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products, is intended to promote the development and use of new fibres. by replacing the three existing directives with a single regulation, it simplifies the legislative process to adapt legislation to technical progress and allows fibre consumers to benefit more quickly from innovative products on the market. i welcome this proposal and i think it is particularly significant that the new regulation contains an explicit reference to 'made in'. it is essential to continue to provide the european union with the tools to compete and compete in the globalised market with its main trading partners, such as the united states, canada, china and japan. i would also like to stress here what i consider to be the most important aspect of the agreement reached with the council, namely the commitment of the european commission to present, by 30 september 2013, after an appropriate impact assessment, a report accompanied by legislative proposals on origin labelling, traceability and the use of new technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which has the merit of simplifying the existing system for labelling textile products, promoting the development and use of new fibres and reducing the time between the submission of an application and the adoption of a new fibre. with these new rules, consumers would benefit more quickly from innovative products. the document we have adopted today also encourages the use of the 'marque d'origine', which would make it easier for consumers to choose and help reduce fraudulent or misleading indications. in this respect, i support the amendment which introduces an obligation for the manufacturer to indicate on the labelling the presence of non-textile parts of animal origin, thus protecting end-users from the risk of inadvertently purchasing products, for example, with genuine fur and better safeguarding the health of allergy sufferers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr manders' proposal has reached a crucial stage in its passage through the imco committee, where it was decided that the composition of 100% of the product, and not just of certain parts, should be introduced. but then our group came out in favour of defending textiles and 'made in' textiles, which were not addressed in the mediation with the council. there are, however, elements that can be shared, such as the process of de-scaling in the materials registers. i shall not be able to vote in favour of this resolution, as the defence of the 'made in' is a priority, and i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. - mr president, the text under discussion today is unfortunately very different from the one which was approved at first reading by this house. the main difference is that this report does not make any reference to the mark of origin to be used on the labels of textile products. the council has strongly opposed this hypothesis, and the reason for this is not clear: is it not right that consumers should know where the clothes they wear come from? the presence of a mark of origin would certainly serve as a guarantee of quality and protection of the product. i am very puzzled that only two member states, italy and lithuania, have insisted in the council that the recognition mark be inserted: i wonder what interest other european countries have in not protecting their own companies in this way, which are thus more exposed to unfair competition and counterfeiting. the european parliament has unfortunately bowed to the council's shortsighted will in not protecting a necessary trademark, and for this reason i felt i had to vote against today's report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr manders' report. the text adopted not only proposes to unify the three directives on composition labelling into a single european regulation directly applicable to all member states, but also aims to simplify the procedure for the recognition of new fibres. the introduction of a rule on mandatory origin labelling for products originating in third countries would probably have made mr manders' report more complete, but given the difficulties encountered in dealing with certain subjects, i believe that a good compromise has finally been reached in the final text voted on.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of these measures is to help countries in the process of stabilising their economies, such as those in the western balkans, with preferential trade procedures with the eu compared with third countries. in view of the right will to extend until 2015, with particular attention to bosnia and serbia, i confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. - i congratulate mr hökmark on the preparation of such a timely report on the radio spectrum policy programme. i voted in favour of this because i strongly support all the measures to support and implement the single market. europe needs advanced and accessible systems for broadband and internet use that can reach rural and peripheral areas as set out in the digital agenda. at the same time, the safety of individuals, producers, users and public administrations must be guaranteed. in addition, high fibre costs and the growing demand from users for high-speed connections require a review of the technological framework, both from a regulatory and operational point of view. this requires the establishment of multiannual legislative programmes on radio spectrum to establish strategic planning and to meet the growing demand for broadband access, especially as official estimates suggest that data traffic is set to double every year until 2013.
in writing. - by adopting the hökmark report, the european parliament is making an innovative choice: the broadband and mobile telephony sectors are not only of great interest to european citizens, but also open up new perspectives in research and innovation, areas in which the eu can and must aspire to play a leading role. in this regard, it is important that the first european radio spectrum programme is in line with the objectives already outlined in the eu 2020 strategy and the 'digital agenda', and is part of the priority actions of the single market act. the eu needs to work to overcome the digital divide that causes great disparities within europe, especially between urban and rural areas, to ensure that all citizens have equal access to services, especially those related to new technologies. i therefore welcome the proposal for ambitious targets to provide broadband access to all european territories by 2020, with particular emphasis on wireless networks.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that all those measures to promote and extend the transparency of parliamentary work are to be welcomed. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon has strengthened parliament's powers, making it a co-legislator in many areas of the ordinary legislative procedure. as a result of this process, parliament's work has become increasingly attractive to a wider range of stakeholders, which is an essential source of information for members of parliament. i therefore welcome the establishment and compilation of a common register for the control of organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the honourable member on his excellent work. i will support your proposal for the establishment of a lobbyist register to increase transparency in the european institutions. but we want the representations, such as the regions, to be given due recognition.
in writing. − relations between the european institutions and political actors on the one hand, and civil society, citizens and representative associations on the other, are recognised and encouraged by the treaty on european union. the institutions shall give citizens and representative associations the opportunity to make known and publicly exchange their views in all areas of union action. in particular, the institutions shall maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue with representative associations and civil society. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the powers of the european parliament, which has become a co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure. in the light of these developments, the european parliament and the commission decided to establish a common register for the registration of the control of organisations and persons involved in the formulation and implementation of the policies of the european union. in order to take account of the changes to existing rights and duties and the creation of new rights and duties relating to the procedure for members, the resolution adopted today supports the need to amend parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. - the report, which initially did not see us favourably as it applied the same rules on 'lobbyists' to public bodies including the representations of the regions to the eu, was amended following our requests. we think it is right to provide for a code of conduct for those who attend the european parliament on behalf of private associations or companies, just as we think it is right not to apply the same rules to churches, political parties, trade unions and public bodies. we therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr casini's text. the transparency of the activities of the european institutions, which have also recently come under attack, is a precondition for legitimacy and a fundamental component in the establishment of a fair and open relationship with representative associations. i therefore believe that the creation of a joint register of parliament and the commission, with the aim of bringing together all the information relating to the actors who are in contact with the institutions, as well as reducing bureaucracy by allowing a single entry, represents a clear improvement in the way of an increasingly open and transparent dialogue with the so-called 'lobbyists'.
in writing. − the creation of a common register by the european parliament and the european commission to bring together all information on actors in contact with the institutions in a single access point is a step towards greater transparency. the transparency of political institutions is, in my view, the fundamental component of an open dialogue with civil society. ensuring that opinions and information in the various fields of union action can be publicly communicated and exchanged, while ensuring the control of organisations and individuals actively involved in the formulation and implementation of eu policies, is an important element of the democratic life of the institutions. i would like to make a few reservations, however: the exclusion of a number of actors from the scope of the register, including the social partners, local, regional and municipal authorities, is not shared. the exclusion is unjustified because these actors are stakeholders and actively participate in decision-making processes to the same extent as many other representative associations. i also think that the information required should be better defined so that it does not lend itself to different interpretations, as is the case in the present situation.
in writing. − the adoption of the common register on transparency - following the overwhelming majority vote in the committee on constitutional affairs - is a further step towards greater clarity in parliamentary activity. a common register between the european parliament and the commission, which will be public and accessible online, will make it easier for citizens to check the different stakeholders with whom members interact. however, this agreement still needs to be improved, as registration for stakeholders is still on a voluntary basis, although it is necessary to gain access to the institutions. the next objective will therefore be to achieve a mandatory registration for all interest representatives. we also expect the council, like the other european institutions, to follow the lead of parliament and the commission and join this register.
in writing. − transparency in the work of political institutions is a precondition for legitimacy. at all times and in all situations it must be possible to easily verify the manner in which each decision is taken, what factors have influenced it and, above all, how resources, i.e. taxpayers' money, have been used. parliament was the first european institution to establish a register of interest representatives in 1996. the resolution adopted today stresses that the creation of a common register ensures the widest possible participation of the various categories of operators, while respecting their differences and specificities. this mechanism provides important information, including the number of natural and legal persons involved in the various activities related to the register and the amount of eu resources benefitting the members.
in writing. - we have supported this resolution and put a question to the commission because we believe it is essential at this time, when the price of oil has been at its highest for some months. it has become unsustainable for many fishing vessels, especially small-scale fleets, to increase their expenditure capitals constantly because of the increase in crude oil, often failing to benefit from the various fishing campaigns. by calling for the de minimis ceiling to be increased from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 over the next three years, we want to send a strong signal to the sector that in recent years, especially as a result of the entry into force of the cfp and the new restrictive measures, some medium and small-scale fishing models have been reduced or even abolished. it should also be remembered that measures have already been taken in other sectors, such as agriculture, to help it cope with this increase. so this aid, which we remember is at national rather than european level, and is therefore linked to the individual economic resources of the member states, could represent for many an imbalance in terms of competition, but in reality it would bring some breathing space to a sector that is increasingly on its knees.
in writing. mr president, i think this resolution on the free trade agreement with india should be rejected. it does not in any way denounce the problems which this agreement will bring to the textile sector in europe, and in northern italy in particular; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resolution stresses, in order to show the validity of the agreement, how the two economies, indian and european, are complementary: the fact is that there are several sectors, including textiles, in which there is no complementarity at all, but rather unfair competition from the asian counterpart. for these reasons i have decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - we are strongly opposed to the eu-india free trade agreements because, while we consider that country to be making progress in protecting workers' health and safety and in fighting counterfeiting, we must still consider it to be an unfair competitor to our companies. for example, india, which as a state has been called back by the wto on the 500% duties it applied to european wines, has unfairly turned the corner by having the same duties imposed by individual member states. we also have to consider the negative economic impact of further liberalisation of trade with india, as the eu exports 1.9% of its services to india and india exports 11.6%. it is clear that this means making it 10 times easier for india than for europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on eu-japan trade relations. in 2009, the european union and japan accounted for around 20% of the world economy and in 2010 the value of bilateral trade reached eur 120 billion. in the light of these figures, i believe it is urgent and necessary to start negotiations on free trade agreements to encourage closer cooperation between the two trading partners and to offer the possibility of jointly addressing common challenges, such as the world economic crisis and the relentless political and economic rise of china. the precondition for the opening of negotiations and for the strengthening of trade relations remains the removal of non-tariff barriers and obstacles to access to japanese public procurement. at this preliminary stage, the commission should also focus on removing the barriers which hinder european smes.
in writing. the text on eu-japan trade relations sees us favourably as japan, despite being a third country, guarantees protection and respect for workers and the global economy. reducing and simplifying the rules, making it easier to trade openly and fairly, can only improve relations with europe. mutual investment between the two economies is worth €200 billion a year: the eu is japan's third largest trading partner and japan is the eu's sixth largest trading partner. the report also asks to assess the possible negative impact of these choices, but it certainly considers that the removal of barriers to trade and investment can only be positive. we therefore vote in favour of the text of the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 42% of the total area of the european union is covered by forests and woodlands. the forestry industry, with a turnover of over eur 300 billion, employs some 2 million people. these are the facts we need to bear in mind to understand the importance of a european strategy for sustainable forest management and a more effective protection of this considerable european heritage. we must remember both the important role of forests in providing socio-economic services and their fundamental contribution to the fight against climate change. it is therefore urgent to improve our capacity to prevent forest fires which continue to destroy more than 400,000 hectares of forest each year. to this end, it would be appropriate to improve the collection of information on forests, to increase research and, above all, to encourage the exchange of knowledge and experience between member states, starting from the cross-border area. i would like to stress the value of the work done by the european forest fire information system (effis) and, above all, the importance of the gmes programme, which makes it possible to monitor and map forest areas.
in writing. − the development of a european strategy for the protection of forests is part of the eu's overall commitment to combating climate change. the proposal for a specific regulation on the prohibition of building on land destroyed by arson fires and the request for adequate funding for forestry strategies, which is currently lacking, are particularly positive in their implementation. finally, it is relevant to require appropriate sustainability criteria in the production of biomass for energy purposes. we therefore urge the european commission to continue along this path by presenting a white paper on forest protection which addresses these issues.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report because forests, which cover more than 42% of the surface of the european union, provide a livelihood for many workers and businesses in the forestry sector. a framework of commission guidelines should be established, binding sustainability criteria should be introduced, including the mandatory nature of national forestry programmes, payments for ecosystem services should be formalised, and forest protection policies should be strengthened by reintroducing the fire prevention regulation. of particular value and impact was the approval of the amendment which prevents speculation on land resulting from intentional forest fires. in italy there is already such a rule which prohibits building destroyed by arson.
in writing. - the albertini report contains some ideas which are acceptable, but there is a fundamental problem. the basic approach is that the eu should gradually gain a pre-eminent position in the field of foreign and defence policy vis-à-vis individual national governments. this means that the member states would have to cede further substantial sovereign shares in foreign policy to the community bodies, which would be responsible for reaching a common position to be represented in the international community and in all multilateral forums. i cannot agree with this perspective: the member states could no longer base their foreign policy on national interests which they considered to be of paramount importance. we agree that the eu must strive to speak with one voice in certain areas in order to be stronger globally and to represent the interests common to all member states; but this cannot be done at the expense of the autonomy of the states in formulating their foreign policy. the report also calls on the eu to take a firm stand on turkey's accession to europe, a point on which i have traditionally been very much opposed. turkey must remain outside our organization, it is not and will never be europe. my vote is against the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot vote in favour of mr albertini's proposal because there are too many points on which we cannot agree. one of these is the one which provides for the coherence of the european union's foreign policy. a flawless concept, but one that, given the crisis in north africa this year and the ongoing crisis in libya, shows how this is not possible. too many distinctions made by different eu countries. another point on which we cannot agree is the call to increase efforts to bring turkey into europe. that is why i shall be voting against.
in writing. − the albertini report on the 2009 annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) is an important milestone for the future of the union's foreign policy. it is indeed necessary for parliament to speak out unanimously in calling on the council not to limit the scope of the annual cfsp report to a mere description of the activities of the cfsp but, as the report rightly states, 'to make it a policy instrument geared to the development of solutions'. we should also stress that 'the report should provide more than a simple list of events and developments by country and should also address the question of the effectiveness of eu foreign policy and the means needed to pursue the objectives of the union's external action'.
in writing. the report emphasises the eu's leading role as an effective global actor on the international stage. to do this requires more strategic external action and a single foreign policy uniting all states. it seems to me to be a utopia in the face of the continuing events in the middle east and the mediterranean countries. i voted against because the report seeks to limit national power by creating new agencies and new military operations, which would mean an increase in expenditure, and it also seeks to give greater impetus to the accession negotiations with turkey.
in writing. - defence policy is one of the most closely guarded areas of member states' policy. the impression that one gets from analysing this report, as indeed from other reports on the same subject or on foreign policy, is that the eu is being pushed to ensure that it gradually takes over the states in the formulation of foreign and defence policy. apart from the objections of principle which can be raised against this approach, it is difficult to see how the eu can be expected to speak with one voice on such sensitive issues, where the interests of individual states are often different, if not openly contradictory. just look at what happened in the case of libya and the humanitarian intervention. it is almost impossible for states to reach agreement and a single, agreed position on events of this magnitude, and even if they did, this would inevitably be to the detriment of the decision-making autonomy of governments and the interests considered to be the priority by national diplomacies. my vote is against the report.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty should represent a new political model in europe, both in terms of the need to pool the resources of the states to achieve the maximum results and in terms of working on common strategies and operations that make europe the political union that its founding fathers dreamed of. we are celebrating this week the europe day, which commemorates the schuman declaration, which speaks of a europe which will "rise from concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity". but it is precisely this solidarity that is lacking at the moment, above all in the expression of a strong political will common to all the states which would serve not only to protect our borders better but also to make our economy more credible. the gualtieri report clearly underlines the inadequacy of the european armed forces both in building a common european defence and in achieving the objectives of the lisbon treaty concerning the internal and external security of the union. without a credible military capability, the european common security and defence policy will remain only on paper and in the words of those who do not have the necessary tools to implement it effectively.
in writing. - the libyan crisis has highlighted the limits of eu external action, both diplomatically and militarily. at the moment, the much-talked-about unity of purpose seems to be undermined by what are the rightful aspirations of the member states to maintain their prerogatives in matters of security policy. i do not agree with the call for a more adequate budget for this policy, without a real sharing of responsibility by national governments for the use of these funds. i think that this kind of policy should be a matter for national competence, and i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. - my vote on the report on the development of the common security and defence policy following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is in favour. our role in the mediterranean, in the middle east and therefore in the whole world will become increasingly important. the current upheavals, which will increase after the death of osama bin laden, must be dealt with in full compliance with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the key to the future will be to strengthen our political capacity to define common strategies and objectives in an increasingly coordinated and timely manner.
in writing. - mr president, the report under consideration today contains both positive and negative aspects, and it represents at best (or at worst) the typical contradictions which the european union displays in its external action. for example, greater integration and joint management in crisis situations is desired: the recent events in libya have shown how europe is acting in a dispersed manner, with some member states directly involved, others having withdrawn and practically only one country, italy, managing the direct consequences of the libyan crisis and the north african crisis in general, namely a massive flow of migrants. we must therefore decide how europe should behave: the european union must be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the union is always united, with the consequences that follow. i am puzzled by the emphasis on the need to increase the power and resources of joint actions and the european defence agency: i would not like, given the circumstances, to see this too become a useless, self-serving cart, and actions totally ineffective. for these reasons i decided to abstain, until i had understood what the european union really wants to do 'when it is big'.
in writing. − the report outlines the need for the european union to play a stabilizing role in the world, working to maintain peace, strengthen international security and manage crises. i voted in favour of this report to join the chorus of parliament's disappointment at the lack of a genuine, comprehensive and uniform post-lisbon approach to the common security policy by the european union. credible and reliable military systems and expertise are an essential condition for the development of an autonomous security and defence policy. i believe, however, that to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to crises, while ensuring its strategic autonomy, it is necessary to adopt a common political will in the long term.
in writing. the report sets out the developments in european defence policy since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i voted against because it is clear that the european union has not acted in a coherent and shared manner following the recent events in libya. there has been a lack of solidarity in the management of the migration crisis, making it clear that when national interests are at stake, the eu forgets noble concepts and disregards them.
in writing. - this report is completely unbalanced on positions favourable to a perspective where, in the future, in the framework of global and regional multilateral organisations, the eu is in a position at least equivalent to that of the member states. this would mean the end, in essence, of the autonomy of diplomatic action by the member states - the member states should adjust their positions so as not to be in clear contrast with those of any community representation - and the consequent inability of national governments to assert their interests adequately in international forums. while it is acceptable that in certain areas, such as monetary policy, the eu should be the dominant position in the relevant multilateral bodies, it is also difficult to accept the idea that the external action service should take it upon itself to represent a position shared by the member states in the world, when the interests of european countries are often so different that it is impossible to reach a common position. i therefore intend to vote against a report which proposes a future scenario in which national diplomacy would be substantially superseded by community diplomacy, to the detriment of the diplomatic autonomy of the member states.
in writing. the effects of the lisbon treaty necessarily imply a review of the role played by the eu in international organisations. however, as we have seen too often in recent times, the so-called single voice with which europe should approach multilateral issues is often detrimental to the prerogatives and decision-making autonomy of the member states. i therefore think i should abstain, because there are positive aspects to the report, but these are being undermined by the comments made a few moments ago.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i want the eu's role in multilateralism to be further strengthened in the years to come. this is also in line with the treaty of lisbon, which, by giving the union legal personality, enhances its capacity to join not only the various international organisations but also regional organisations and the relevant groups of states. these relations will be able to resolve economic and commercial issues as well as environmental ones. the european union's contribution must also be an added value in multilateral organisations or summits where not all its members are represented. unfortunately, recent but also ongoing political and humanitarian crises around the world have called for swift and decisive action by the eu. it is often not easy, but countries affected by such crises look to the eu for rapid intervention not only through foreign policy instruments but also first aid in emergencies.
in writing. − the external dimension of the eu needs to be strengthened as article 21 of the eu treaty promotes an international system based on enhanced multilateral cooperation in which member states ensure that the union can assert its interests and values on the international stage. the lisbon treaty has created new permanent structures for the eu's external representation, but this new dimension does not yet allow the union to participate fully and unilaterally in the work of many international bodies. this risks undermining the union's commitment to effective multilateralism, limiting its decision-making capacity and undermining its credibility. it is precisely because of the increase in political and humanitarian crises in the world that the eu should make the best use of its foreign policy instruments, so as to ensure better use of its leverage within multilateral organisations and its capacity to take the lead in dealing with current and future international crises. the promotion of democracy and human rights, in particular the rights of women and children, freedom of expression and the rule of law should be at the heart of all eu external action.
in writing. the final text of this report strengthens the eu's strategic role in international organisations. to do this, we must first of all promote active and practical participation, which will allow for the strengthening of both internal and external cooperation. this must be the key to strengthening the legitimacy of decisions taken, while ensuring full responsibility sharing. finally, the member states must coordinate within the human rights council in order to establish clear and rigorous access criteria, especially for countries where human rights violations are on the agenda.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the council has really outdone itself. it must be remembered that the people are represented by persons democratically elected by the people themselves. so if parliament has continued to insist in committee and in the house that cloned meat is not acceptable to our people, the council should have taken note of that. the responsibility for this choice, which is very bad for the company, lies entirely with the council. the text, with the exception of the part concerning cloned meat and a few other foods, was to be approved by a very large majority. the council did not want this - the same council which, on the one hand, proclaims itself to be in favour of the liberalization of everything and, on the other hand, demands the elimination of made in textiles, because it does not want to give the correct information to consumers and is breaking the boxes on the label, because it does not want the label to indicate the place of origin or provenance of the food on the table of our people. that is the council's position. it is right that mr pittella - and i thank him for that - has upheld the honour and the will of almost all members by rejecting the blackmail proposal which the council wanted to impose on us. i therefore thank mr pittella, the rapporteur and all those colleagues who have had the courage to take no steps backwards in what we thought was really useful for our people.
madam president, i agree with what has been said by my predecessors. i too was part of the delegation to the conciliation committee, during which the feelings were one of hope, one of disappointment, but also one of anger. let us say this, because we represented more than 500 million citizens, the vast majority of whom, according to all the investigations and research, repeat loudly that they do not want food from cloned animals and their descendants on their table. labelling and traceability are really the bare minimum we were trying to achieve. if we had accepted the compromise, we would have accepted an empty compromise. mr pittella is right: a little bit of clover, a little bit of belletto, maybe a little smoke in the eyes, but nothing more than an empty container. let 's not kid ourselves . nobody pays a bull 100,000 euros to grind it up and sell it as a hamburger. for the rest, there was no regulation, we would have accepted deregulation, and that is not possible. today, however, we are still defending the choices, claiming that it was a collective failure. but it was not a collective failure because there was agreement on practically everything, even if it failed miserably by giving the impression to the citizens that big industries and the rules of trade take precedence over european citizenship, which we are here to represent and defend. i would therefore urge everyone to start again with a new feeling and a new attitude, because i want and hope that next time the expectations and the will of the citizens will be respected.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, so-called novel foods are products or food ingredients which are subjected to production processes and which result in a change in nutritional value. i have a number of doubts about the new regulation on novel foods. what will be the relationship with the regulation of gmos, since cloning is part of genetic engineering and, as with gmos, involves genetic manipulation? how will the movement of these foods between the various european states be regulated? how will scientific testing be done to test the safety of these new foods? what are the criteria for defining this product and, above all, how will the consumer be informed of the characteristics and nutritional properties of the novel food he will be buying? i am concerned about consumer protection, food safety in the use of these new products and correct information. i therefore believe that traceability must be complete for consumers, especially for natural products, for which we already have difficulties in ensuring such traceability.
mr president, three million jobs lost in the face of several million euros invested in support policies. this is the disastrous result, in terms of impact on smes, of the triumphant lisbon project first and the "photocopy" europe 2020 strategy second, on which it is even being decided to concentrate resources of the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i can therefore only repeat what thousands of european citizens and taxpayers are asking themselves: what good is europe if it cannot solve the continent's economic problems and cannot speak with one voice on foreign policy and squanders money? i hope that what commissioner tajani has said several times will come true. i hope that the revision of the sme code will really be able to simplify bureaucracy, ensure access to and recovery of credit and facilitate internalization. the late payment directive is a concrete and real achievement, but it is the result of political will and not of european propaganda. if the costs of yet another strategy are to be financed by mere talk, i call on the european institutions to make amends to the dozens of small entrepreneurs in my region, veneto, who took their own lives before seeing their small business fail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the small business act is a great opportunity if it starts with an understanding of the value of the assets represented by small and mediumsized enterprises. in italy, small and mediumsized enterprises represent a major and essential part of the production market. in the south of italy, in my own country, they are even more so, because the whole productive fabric is structured in medium and small enterprises. in the past, entire industrial areas were teeming with small firms that provided thousands of jobs. today, many of these companies have failed or closed down, partly because of unfair competition, as the barletta students here today know very well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the report by mrs merkies, whom i thank for her work, is parliament's first major contribution to the commission's proposal on the innovation union initiative. in recent years, major countries around the world have been tenaciously pursuing the goal of concentrating their competition policies on a few key sectors, which have generated growth and development by focusing on innovation. one for all, the high tech one. europe recognizes the need to pursue its own projects of economic and industrial growth, concentrating resources and investments in innovative policies, without abandoning the path which has seen it lead and play a leading role in economic and social development in recent decades. the guidelines of this report point to the need for a cross-cutting approach, which promotes innovation in all areas of business, the economy and society in general. small and medium-sized enterprises the backbone of europe's economic strength even in difficult crisis situations are identified as a place where innovation is taking place on a daily basis. today these skills must be recognised, rewarded and made available for the growth and development of the entire continent. it is also made clear that innovation and research are two sides of the same coin. innovation can be the product of research, but it can also be the widespread ability to change the existing in all areas of daily life for the better. it will be a european bet to succeed. we may not be able to create a silicon valley anytime soon, but we may be able to create a stanford university.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs merkies on her excellent work. i believe we must invest more and with greater courage in innovation, research and knowledge. innovation must not disappear in research. innovation and research do not overlap and i am pleased that the report emphasises this strategic distinction. the report sets out some important objectives: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social partners, the social partners and the social partners. simplifying and streamlining the life of small and medium-sized enterprises through the one-stop shop, focusing on talent, creativity and innovative ideas are essential conditions for growth and development. europe must now take innovation policies seriously if we are to emerge from the crisis and build a better future for our young people.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the ilo convention supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000092/2011 - b7-0305/2011).
member of the commission. − madam president, this discussion highlights the pivotal role of the ilo in the world of labour. i believe that we have to continue our close cooperation with the ilo because its work in this field, and in others of course, applies very much to the european context. but the discussion also showed that many of the employment and social policies we are dealing with apply to domestic workers, although they are regarded as constituting a separate group. skills development, health and safety, decent wages and social security, the development of contractual arrangements – and i could continue this list, course – are all aspects which have to be covered in the context of domestic work, and indeed the european union must be a leader globally as well. we need to work very closely with member states, because many possibilities for action can be found at member state level, and we continue with the exchange of best practices in this area. as i mentioned in my introductory statement, we are currently implementing a pilot project, at the request of parliament, to convert precarious work into decent employment, and two calls for proposals have been launched already. the second, issued earlier this year, is specifically a call for action to strengthen the rights of poorest workers, and there will a study to better understand the phenomenon of precarious work as well. concerning the question on health and safety legislation and how it applies to domestic workers, the commission at this moment does not plan to extend the scope of the health and safety directive but we now have an opportunity to think about new rules on domestic workers as a group. it is important to note that member states can, of course, introduce more stringent national rules. they can, for example, include domestic workers in national rules and go beyond the minimum requirements.
i have received a motion for a resolution with debate on the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 may at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on antibiotic resistance, by mr paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000048/2011 - b7-0304/2011).
author of the book. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important opportunity to take a serious and responsible approach to the growing problem of antibiotic resistance in animals, a strategic issue for the agricultural sector and, in particular, for the future of the european livestock system. in europe, data indicate that about half of all antibiotics used are prescribed for animal use. antibiotics, when used correctly, are a useful tool to help farmers keep their animals healthy and productive and to ensure their well-being. we are not here to demonize the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, but we want to ask the commission for a concrete response to the more efficient and effective use of antimicrobials in order to reduce resistance in animals. this parliament, in its resolution of 5 may 2010 on the european union action programme on animal welfare, had already stressed the link between animal welfare, animal health and public health, and called on the commission and the member states to address responsibly the sensitive issue of antibiotic resistance in animals. in particular, we had asked the commission to collect and analyse data on the use of all animal health products, including antibiotics, in order to ensure the effective use of these products. one year later, the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, is here to ask the european commission to take all the necessary steps to reduce this longstanding problem, which can also have consequences for human health. what is needed, mr president and commissioner, is a concrete commitment by the commission to put the results achieved into practice, starting from the data collected, not only by encouraging research and monitoring activities but also by ensuring greater effectiveness in the use of antibiotics as an important tool in the fight against animal diseases. on this front, i would like to point out that some studies show that a low-energy animal diet could lead to an increased incidence of disease and therefore to an increased use of antibiotics. it would therefore be desirable, in full respect of the highest food safety, to be able to review the prohibition on the use of animal meal for monogastric animals, in accordance with the opinion of the european veterinary scientific committee. these are the demands of the resolution adopted by the committee on agriculture on 12 april and which we shall be voting on in this house tomorrow. it has been a lot of work in the last few months, and i would like to personally thank mr paulsen, the shadow rapporteurs and all the groups in this parliament for their valuable contribution to the definition of a common text on a subject on which the competitive future of european livestock farming could depend and whose cross-cutting nature requires efforts and responsibility, through a coordinated approach and a common will.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission strategy on antimicrobial resistance (amr), which we plan to present in november, will provide further ideas on how the commission, together with the member states and stakeholders, could tackle amr in all sectors involved. some of these actions may require changes in legislation. others may not. the key is to select the right tools for the task in hand. i fully agree with you that this is not only, or chiefly, an animal farming issue. this is why our aim is to reduce the development of antimicrobial resistance attributed to the use of antimicrobials in animals. there are various tools here: education, awareness-raising campaigns and so on. by the same token, we believe that data has to be collected to promote better understanding of the problem. the member states do actually show interest in providing data, which is encouraging. and yes, we do have a timetable for action. preparatory work is on-going, including impact assessment, the revision of rules on veterinary medical products and so on. legislative proposals, as i already mentioned, will follow in 2012. the commission very much welcomes the valuable input of parliament and looks forward to continued collaboration with parliament, member states and stakeholders from all sectors, with the common aim of protecting the health of citizens throughout the european union.
i have received a motion for a resolution with debate on the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 may at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs on the ppe's files this morning, because i believe that through these reports we are laying the foundations for the europe of the future. this morning we are working on the next generation, from children to young people to be accompanied into the world of work through the important flagship initiative called youth on the move. we are thinking this morning of enlarging the union to the balkans, precisely because of culture, and we are also giving value to the cultural and creative industries. at a time of great economic crisis, it is right to point out that the only sector which is not losing money but is actually increasing its turnover is culture. culture, which we would like to see play a role in the european union's external action, not just through well-paid civil servants, but perhaps by building a better path to peace, stability and encounter between different cultures. but today we must also aim to strengthen our programmes on culture, education and youth. programmes such as erasmus, life long learning, comenius, leonardo, youth in action and many others are not only labels for millions of europeans but symbols of the european union's existence. they represent the first time that many people have felt european and come into contact with their peers and colleagues, contributing to the real strengthening of the union, and further to the new competences on sport that the union has assumed since the treaty of lisbon. we need to invest in all these programs, but most of all, we need to believe in ourselves. milk quotas, investment in industry and environmental protection are important: but it is with culture that we will build europe, and we must do so not with words but with programmes and actions that we know and want to put into practice. commissioner, that violin that played in sarajevo - as mrs pack said - plays much more the strings of our europe than many regulations. europe is built in this way, sometimes with a little more force on the regulations themselves.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make my contribution by stating the need for a new methodological approach, particularly in the field of heritage and cultural heritage, linked to the intelligent use of new technologies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. new technologies require new methods of operation. i have personally seen that with the intelligent use of technology, important results can be achieved in the field of monumental heritage both for design and restoration work and because, at the same time and without additional costs, high-precision geometric databases can be obtained useful for the possible monitoring of the property and management in the event of natural disasters, products for the scientific dissemination and promotion of the monumental property also at a global level, satisfying aspects of cultural diffusion and exchange. what i am concerned about is contributing to an action aimed at achieving a new awareness in technologies, so that new economic opportunities are created for europe. i believe in particular that we need to train new and highly qualified young professionals who are able to meet the challenges of the new global market.
mr president, in an ageing europe which is having difficulty in finding future answers to global challenges, the european union and the member states must take up this strong appeal from parliament to be more courageous, investing in the new generations, in education and culture. with these four reports and the proposal for sarajevo, parliament is calling for these issues to be placed at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy. in particular, the economic, employment and innovation benefits are highlighted in the report on the cultural and creative industries, which already account for almost 3% of european output and employ 5 million people, rising to 7% with the new industrial sector. as the shadow rapporteur for these measures for the s&d group, i am pleased with the positive reception given by the rapporteur to our amendments. what did we propose? firstly, that the eight sectors envisaged should be supplemented by cultural tourism and fashion. we also hope that the commission - and i am sure the commissioner will do so - will present as soon as possible a white paper on the cultural and creative industries, to strengthen this horizontal strategy at european and member state level. in times of crisis, cutting funding to culture and education - as my country does, too, proclaiming that culture is not food - means not investing in the future and in smart and inclusive growth; it means not understanding that without culture you cannot live. the report calls for the effective recognition of the european status of the artist and the creative, and for the cultural industries, full recognition of the status of small and medium-sized enterprises for access to credit and support for start-ups, especially for young people up to 35 years of age, job protection, specific training and the introduction of innovative financial instruments, bearing in mind that the capital of the creative is often intangible but is decisive for innovation in all sectors. the cross-cutting cultural sector must be taken into account in international trade legislation, in the european dimension of course, and in cultural diplomacy, in the internal market, in mobility ..... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, "life is beautiful, my love. you look out at the world and it's yours". the first lines of a simple poem reveal the greatness of life and hold us accountable for the world we build for our children. in her report, mrs honeyball makes a point of pointing out that the future of our children is defined from the earliest years of their lives, when the institutions must play a key role in ensuring that they grow up properly. i agree with all the points in the report: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european school leaving certificate for young people is a welcome step towards the creation of a european school leaving certificate for young people. as always supported in the femm committee, the poverty of parents is followed by the poverty of children. and children have the right to receive care and services from the member state and the union. the fight against poverty, social exclusion and illiteracy requires that children be followed from the time they take their first steps. this requires investment in early childhood care and education and monitoring of services and the professionalism of the staff. all children should have access to education without distinction of class, and this opportunity should also be guaranteed to the children of asylum seekers, refugees and all those who are allowed to reside, even temporarily, within the union. the report focuses on research and the exchange of best practices, the proper use of the structural funds and programmes such as comenius, and the need for states to reclaim their central role in children's early learning years, in order to ensure smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs honeyball for her work. the guarantee of early childhood education and care for all children must become a right for parents, particularly mothers, but above all for children themselves, because it means laying a solid foundation for their education and fostering social integration, personal development and the possibility of finding a job when they reach adulthood. more generally, as has been reiterated by other colleagues, the european commission's communication on the european union programme for the rights of the child states that in 2009, more than 6 million young people left the formal education system after barely completing lower secondary education, and of these, 17.4 per cent stayed in primary school. these figures are discouraging and lead us to believe that the school and education system is often neglected and deprived of adequate investment. investing in quality education from the earliest years of life is not only an essential starting point for the cognitive, sensory and even motor development of the child, but also the prerequisite for creating an inclusive society with opportunities for future generations. in addition, the qualitative and quantitative increase in day-care centres and early childhood facilities, as envisaged in the objectives set in the conclusions of the barcelona european council, allows working parents to reconcile family and professional life. unfortunately, statistics show that most member states are still very far from achieving these objectives.
, in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1990s, the european union has seen an exponential growth in the cultural and creative industries (ccis) in terms of job creation and contribution to gdp. they are characterised by a twofold nature: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. the green paper of the european commission officially recognises the economic and social importance of this sector of the economy. however, while some of our international partners are already making great use of the multiple resources of the ccis, the european union has not yet developed a strategy that puts cultural activities at its core. in my view, the challenges of globalisation offer these industries important development opportunities that are likely to increase their potential for economic growth and employment. in particular, strategic investments, cooperation with local actors, the transfer of know-how and the exchange of good practices are needed to enable ccis to boost social and territorial cohesion. i also believe that stronger protection of intellectual property rights is a prerequisite for safeguarding cultural diversity in europe.
madam president, there is no doubt that this report is a step forward in creating new training opportunities for young people. more research, more innovation, more strategy 2020 in an increasingly topical context. more schooling, more training, but also more universities, to ensure that there is really cooperation at youth level which can bring added value in the promotion of culture. building educational success is a focal point of this report and is also the reason why we voted in favour. more mobility for young people, more capacity to develop job opportunities and a labour market that must look not only at young people working in a particular context but also at all those sectors in which young people have opportunities for growth.
in writing. - mr president, the european union has in recent years been increasingly focusing on creating a knowledge-based society capable of competing with all other economies on a global scale. the europe 2020 strategy with its youth on the move initiative has given a key role to youth with the aim of achieving the five main objectives by 2020: employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction. ambitious objectives in view of the precarious situation in which young people live, in a state of constant uncertainty, far from a positive vision of a solid future in work and of their integration into society. the consolidation of the feeling of european citizenship and the real exploitation of the potential of young people cannot take place unless the instruments made available are equipped with the resources necessary for their proper functioning. member states should refrain from adopting austerity measures that involve cuts in the education and employment system, and instead focus on the establishment of platforms involving the social partners, universities, enterprises and local and regional authorities in order to provide opportunities in the field of education and vocational training, mobility and recognition of qualifications.
in writing. − youth on the move (yom) is one of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. yom consists of key actions to increase education and training of young people through mobility and thereby facilitate their entry into the labour market. according to recent data, 14.4% of young europeans aged 18-24 have left school before completing a secondary education qualification, and less than a third of the eu population has a tertiary education qualification, compared with about 40% in the us and 50% in japan. it is essential that young people are able to develop the skills and competences that will enable them to enter the labour market and to contribute actively to the growth of the union. i therefore welcome and encourage the initiative to reduce the drop-out rate to 10% and to increase the proportion of people with post-secondary education from 31% to 40% by 2020. finally, i believe that high quality education and vocational training is essential to meet the new demands of the labour market.
in writing. − the 'youth on the move' programme is an important reference point for young european citizens. first of all, from a financial point of view, since it further intensifies the european union's interventions in favour of the mobility of young students, it improves the functioning of the european schools, stimulating research and debate on the meaning of a united europe and showing what it can offer. equally important is the contribution of youth on the move to the debate on the definition of a european cultural model. the cooperation between the various institutes and the learning of the various subjects, which are taught differently in different countries, also depending on the political sensibilities of the ruling classes, is a fundamental contribution to the definition of european identity. let us make this identity, through our young people, truly european and let us not allow the only model our young people will have in the future in terms of education to be the american model, which has also rightly been an important reference point until now. the european union has all the means at its disposal to offer the world its values and its idea of how it wants and will want to raise its children.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this report adds an important element to a european policy which must aim to give young europeans the tools to be more competitive in the increasingly globalised labour market. focusing on student mobility must be the first step in giving our young people more job opportunities. unfortunately, the figures on youth unemployment in many member states are cause for concern and for reflection. supporting young people by encouraging dialogue between the european institutions and youth organisations is a good start, but it should not be seen as the end of the road. we must listen to them and give them credibility and confidence. only then can we create a europe which is seen as an opportunity and not as a burden for the new generations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a europe that looks to the future, thinking of young people is a priority. to enable them to follow the most appropriate educational path, to learn languages other than their mother tongue easily, to approach the world of work in an appropriate and competent way, or perhaps to reintegrate into different educational and working contexts, means building a future for all the countries of the european union through the energies of students, university students and young workers who are confronted together in a common cultural and economic basin. today more than ever i am convinced of a europe - a furnace of ideas and projects - and i have therefore voted in favour of mr zver's report. creating a knowledge and opportunity circuit, not only for young people but also for teachers and those working in education and training, is equivalent in the europe of strategy 2020 to giving oxygen to those energies that we must release through the mobility of our young people who will have to learn to live in the europe of the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the importance for young europeans of having a multidisciplinary education in the context of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, it is necessary to encourage young people to pursue university-level studies. early entry into the world of work, in fact, creates the risk of future unemployment and the associated lowering of the quality of life. this could therefore cause high economic and social costs and negatively affect the union's sustainable economic growth and future improvement of its global competitiveness. for the same reasons, i believe that multicultural, multilingual and practical education is essential to train the citizens of tomorrow, especially if achieved through mobility projects such as 'youth on the move'.
in writing. − too many young people are currently leaving school early and too few are attending higher education, which is undermining the skills base that europe will need in the future. youth on the move aims to expand learning mobility opportunities for all young europeans by 2020, facilitating the transition from education to work through education that is in line with market needs. for these reasons, it is appropriate to encourage the school and business world to network by increasing practical knowledge through training courses. this initiative puts young people at the centre, but we must not forget young people with disabilities who must be guaranteed the same opportunities for study and work.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aware of the inadequacy and the difficulty of implementing an approach to early childhood care and education services, attention must be paid to the possible implementation of what is needed and the levels at which action must be taken. by childhood we mean the period of the first six years of a child's life. this is a critical time in the development of the child's brain, body, and mind, as well as his language skills. during these years, the child learns, learns the tools with which he will develop different cognitive mechanisms when he grows up, but these are necessary for the study and work he will do. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it is about protecting children, the right of thousands of children to go to school or to be placed in the best possible conditions for learning. the future and development of the eu is at stake when we talk about this and that is why we must act in the direction indicated by mrs honeyball, whom i congratulate on her work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that early childhood education in the european union is still provided in very different ways in the individual member states. a common european framework comprising shared objectives and values and including common rights and structures needs to be developed. children must be regarded as genuine active citizens, capable of forming and expressing their own opinions, enjoying rights and possessing their own creative potential. in this context, once again, parents must be considered the fundamental focal point of their education. the natural family is the ideal place for a child to grow and develop, and once again granting an adequate period of parental leave can help reduce the demand for places in childcare facilities. concrete action will therefore be required, as very few member states currently offer paid leave periods of sufficient length to meet the needs of families.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the islamic republic of mauritania and the european union should be considered a strategic memorandum of understanding of major importance in the context of eu-africa relations. this is why a new protocol must be implemented today, consistent with the commitment made by european countries in 2002, and capable of ensuring sustainable fishing practices that also contribute to the development of the countries concerned. the priority now is to resume the negotiations already under way on new bases, involving the states which have hitherto been excluded from the negotiations. in addition, certain requests dating back to the negotiations of the original agreement, in which mauritania, for example, had requested at the last minute additional biological stops of fishing in may and june, in addition to those already planned for the months of september and october, must be reviewed.
in writing. − with a view to overcoming the economic and financial crisis, public procurement is a catalyst for the revival of the european economy, business, employment and consumer welfare in europe. the gradual liberalisation of special sectors (water, electricity and gas) requires a system of qualification of contracting authorities to ensure effective selection of competitors in order to protect the undertakings operating in these areas. i am in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is necessary, in a transparent system, to limit the fragmentation of eu public procurement legislation, while achieving the objective of maximum competitiveness and efficiency.
in writing. - as a result of the deep economic and financial crisis affecting industry and smes, the price of a barrel of oil has risen, and its price is still uncertain today because of the risk of political instability in the arab world. this crisis has also affected european fishermen deeply, since we import 60% of our fish from third countries. i am in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important to strengthen the security of energy supply by informing the markets and giving consumers greater assurance about the state of oil reserves. i also believe that a joint action plan should be put in place to support coastal regions active in the fisheries sector.
in writing. - mr president, the commission pays great attention to smes. 23 million smes, which form the fabric of the community economy, are a source of innovation and creativity and enable europe to continue to stand out on world markets. the bureaucratic and legislative obstacles which until recently stifled the creation of small innovative companies are gradually disappearing, and young people are also seeing a window of opportunity for a stable future, and we hope that it will also be full of opportunities. entrepreneurship, training, flexibility, smart regulation and access to credit are the key words in the small business act, a framework that sets out the union's policy for smes through targeted support and training activities for young people. now that a number of initiatives have been defined, it is up to the member states and the european union as a whole to give them due implementation, by giving smes greater freedom in their actions, allowing them to participate in public procurement tenders, adopting the single european patent in the future and rapidly implementing the directive on late payment. we must not forget that if we are not to frustrate the efforts made so far, we need investment, because only this will act on the basis of the proper functioning of the mechanism and european competitiveness itself.
in writing. - the revision of the small business act and the new proposals contained in it are necessary tools to strengthen and revitalise europe's 23 million smes, which have proved to be a real bulwark against the economic crisis. in the european economy, smes account for 99% of all enterprises and employ almost 100 million europeans. we must continue to strengthen and support small and mediumsized enterprises to boost growth, while focusing on greater competitiveness and innovation. and these proposals reflect exactly these needs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the sba in the member states and in the union, in particular through the implementation of the sba guidelines.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much welcome this resolution on the review of the small business act, because it sets out the right measures to be taken to facilitate the work of over 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. the main points raised were certainly the implementation of a new set of measures to facilitate access to credit through public support for guarantee schemes and a strong commitment to promoting the co-financing of microcredit. our smes do not need various incentives and subsidies for their own sake, but rather greater and simpler freedom of action, and therefore less bureaucracy, and also certain guarantees: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial perspective. finally, i would like to stress that internationalisation may represent the new frontier for the revival of smes, and that all appropriate instruments are therefore welcome to enable them to expand beyond their own borders: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'.
in writing. − i am in favour of the small business act review report as it aims at improving credit and market access for smes. at this time of crisis for european enterprises, it is necessary to assist smes by enabling them to increase their capacity and know-how and by encouraging them to support management programmes to implement research, development and innovation. the text recognises the key role of smes in the transition to a resource-efficient economy, and the role of young entrepreneurs is also essential. for the latter, the eu should commit itself to institutionalising the erasmus programme, giving them an opportunity to grow.
in writing. the concept of innovation is multidimensional: it includes not only scientific research and experimental and technological development but also the development of new processes, methodologies and organisational and behavioural models. while welcoming the european commission's communication on the innovation union as a flagship initiative of the eu 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, i believe that there are still priority areas where more effort would be needed to develop capacity in science, technology and innovation: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the 2009 european innovation panel concluded that the recent economic and financial crisis has had a disproportionate impact across countries. i am concerned about the current budgetary constraints on member states which risk leading to further restrictions on investment in research and innovation, with clear negative effects on growth and competitiveness in europe. i therefore call the commission's attention to the need to mobilise the resources of the common strategic framework for the financing of the european union's research and innovation sectors in particular.
in writing. - the request for the introduction of the single european patent put forward by the report, as well as the satisfaction it expresses over the adoption of forced cooperation in relation to the introduction of the patent, prevents me from voting in favour. the introduction of an anglo-french-german european patent is unacceptable for at least two reasons. firstly, trilingualism would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of firms in member states not represented in the system. these companies, including italian ones, would have to wait for the translation processes to be completed before they could have access to documents, at the expense of timeliness, which is of primary importance in the commercial sector. they should also bear additional translation costs. on the other hand, anglo-french-german companies would not face any of these obstacles, which would give rise to discrimination on the basis of language. furthermore, the introduction of the trilingual system does not seem to meet administrative requirements, and does not even seem to reflect the demographic weight of the member states, because then italy would also have to be represented. it is rather an attempt to impose german prestige at the expense of the principles of parity and equality between the member states on which the eu is founded. i therefore decide not to support the report.
in writing. - innovation is in many ways the key to economic growth. as early as the second half of the 20th century, the most authoritative growth economists had understood that innovation is one of the main variables to leverage on declining marginal returns. in this way, we have moved from the growth models of the 1950s, according to which the economy is destined to stabilize and lose its propulsive momentum sooner or later, to the endogenous growth models of the 1980s, where, thanks to technology and the design of ever-changing and innovative products, the economy manages to maintain a positive growth rate over the long term. to activate these levers, which will be used from now until 2020 to achieve research objectives, energy efficiency and internationalisation processes, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, we need a strong political will to set in motion the incentive and guidance mechanisms currently in the hands of the member states, for which the european funding instruments provide valuable support. resources are limited because of the crisis and the europe 2020 directives will have to be accompanied by strong fiscal and industrial policies by european governments.
in writing. - europe, which is emerging from an unprecedented crisis in recent months, is facing very strong competition at world level. in this context, innovation is a necessity but above all a priority. if we fail to turn europe into an innovation union, the economies of the 27 member states will be doomed to decline, with the consequent loss of talent and ideas. innovation is the key to achieving sustainable growth and contributing to a fairer and greener society. innovation is essential to creating a modern economy and is the main tool for creating new jobs. a common commitment is needed to bring about a profound change in europe's capacity for innovation. only then will we be able to create stable employment and well-paid jobs that can withstand the pressure and competition of globalisation. the union is innovating. it is not a mere play on words but a real wish that must be fulfilled.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs merkies' report because the final version of the text is more balanced than the original version, which focused too much on the catalytic role of the 'citizen' rather than the role of business. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is also worth noting that it is precisely through the promotion of policies aimed at strengthening collaboration between industries, education systems and research institutions that the european union's policies in this field have grown and developed. i therefore believe that the document voted on represents a useful contribution to the ongoing debate on a future common strategic programme to support research and innovation in the eu.
in writing. - mr president, in this new digital economy, the cultural and creative industries have great potential to help express europe's cultural diversity and spread economic and social progress. in addition, culture and creativity are fundamental factors in safeguarding and enhancing cultural and landscape heritage and in raising the cultural level of citizens. it is no secret that these industries are one of the most dynamic sectors in europe, contributing 2.6% of eu gdp and providing quality jobs for some 5 million european citizens. with the green paper published by the commission a year ago, ccis have been given the right recognition and a crucial role in a european vision of culture based on an information society, innovation and entrepreneurship. unfortunately, the lack of investment, the insufficient capital of enterprises, the lack of a regulatory framework to remove obstacles to the mobility of artists and creators and the increasing prevalence of piracy continue to be some of the factors that weaken the establishment of a european cultural area. let us not forget that the basis of the worldwide success of european industries is the great professionalism and creativity of our artists, who should be protected and encouraged, with concrete instruments, to continue their work.
in writing. the european union is known for its plurality of cultural forms. in my view, european values such as respect for human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms are also transmitted by our cultural products. international knowledge and qualifications, as highlighted by the eu 2020 strategy, are key to education systems. multilingualism, computer skills and cultural skills make it possible to take advantage of the many opportunities offered by a global labour market such as the one we are experiencing today. culture should therefore be a transversally integrated element in the wide range of actions which make up the european union's foreign policy. there is currently no coherent and coordinated strategy for culture in the union's external policies. there are also fragmentation and dispersion not only between member states but also between the various services and institutions of the european union. this fragmentation, without a common strategy, prevents the efficient use of resources and budgetary allocations for the cultural sector. i therefore call the commission's attention to the need to consider the integration and simplification of culture both in the european union's external actions and within the european institutions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'united in diversity' is the motto that unites all of us european citizens and that connotes our sense of belonging to the great european community. a crossroads of peoples, cultures and customs that recognize themselves as united despite their economic, religious and other differences. my support for mrs schaake's report was prompted by the need to give a boost to this common awareness. culture must play a cohesive role in the internal and external path, and for this reason european culture could be the banner of european values in the eeas's relations, which through dialogue with non-european cultures should contribute to peaceful cooperation and constructive understanding between peoples.
in writing. − the sharing of cultural heritage between individuals is fundamental both in the community context, for the consolidation of a european identity, and in the union's relations with third countries. i am therefore in favour of strengthening external action in this direction. cultural resources are often dispersed in countless projects. the efficient use of this funding is further hampered by political fragmentation. it is therefore desirable that the european external action service should now pursue a coherent and unified strategy of 'cultural diplomacy', including through the designation of a specific representative for the eu in third countries. finally, i believe that the use of new technologies, which can multiply the channels of access to cultural content, should be increasingly promoted. it is crucial for the european union to play a leading role in this context, developing concrete policies that can protect the network from all the censorship typical of repressive regimes.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report which recognises and enhances the economic and social importance of the cultural and creative industries. focusing the eu's attention on these industries, structuring their potential through a coherent strategy, including financial support, is at least two of the priorities on which the northern league has always focused. these are, first of all, the enhancement and revival of local cultural heritage, whether linguistic, musical, architectural or artistic in the broadest sense, in order to protect the diversity and peculiarity of intellectual horizons in an era of generalization, or perhaps trivialization and devaluation, of the cultural message. secondly, institutional commitment to the cultural and creative industries would enable talented young people to channel their skills and ambitions in a constructive way, providing them with launching pads, including professional ones, which would then open up new job opportunities, while protecting them from the dispersion of their talent in culturally stagnant or simply unsuitable environments. i therefore support the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the commission continue the process of defining the cultural creative industries (ccis) in a better way, in the context of their greater recognition by civil society. i see a lot of potential for kics, especially if one considers the possible and necessary cooperation relationships with universities, research centres, art schools, with which to create a network of joint training and lifelong learning programmes. it is essential and important, ladies and gentlemen, to disseminate practices and know-how and to promote learning through vocational training programmes specifically devoted to the cultural and creative sectors. i believe it is necessary to ensure multidisciplinary teaching and to insist on cooperation and partnership programmes not only between educational establishments, students and professionals in the cultural and creative sectors, but also between businesses of all sizes and between the public and private sectors, between craftsmen and financial institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the cultural and creative industries represent added value for the territory of the union. a 'european status for the artist', based on favourable working conditions and tax incentives, enhances europe as a dynamic and stimulating environment for living and working, attractive to skilled and creative people. moreover, a knowledge-based economy makes it possible to safeguard europe's cultural diversity while moving towards social cohesion and employment. in this context, in order to exploit this potential to the full, it is necessary to promote not only the transmission of creative knowledge to the new generations, but also the mobility of artists throughout europe.
in writing. − the cultural and creative industries sector consists of enterprises with great economic potential, as they generate employment, growth and wealth and implement the social and cultural integration of citizens. in line with the motto of europe united in diversity, the presence of these industries using culture as input is crucial, as they promote intercultural dialogue while safeguarding european diversity. promoting these industries creates new and important opportunities for territorial development, collaboration with local actors and possible partnerships with the public and private sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text by mrs sanchez-schmid on the potential, not yet fully exploited, of the european cultural and creative industries: the eu has also a heritage in these industries, whose exponential growth over the last 25 years has created tens of thousands of jobs. it is therefore necessary to build a european strategy for these industries, in which they have the opportunity to express their potential and be recognized as both carriers of culture and entertainment, but also creators of business and jobs.
, in writing. azerbaijan is an active participant in the european neighbourhood policy, is one of the eu's 6 eastern partners and is a founding member of the euronest parliamentary assembly. the core values of these three initiatives are respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. these initiatives include a permanent political dialogue which will deepen the links between the member states and enable europe to accompany them on the path of reform. we believe that the instrument of the emergency resolution may be inadequate or even counterproductive to the objective pursued, namely steady progress by azerbaijan in achieving its goals of full and modern democracy. the institutions provided for by the agreements reached at both interparliamentary and intergovernmental level are in fact the appropriate places to seek explanations for any violations of rights and to stimulate virtuous behaviour and democratic reforms in an effective way.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i think that the request can be accepted because i see no reason why it should not be.
mr president, this regulation is part of the measures to define general indicators for the integration of gdp: european environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the interaction between environmental and economic factors. the commission proposal is acceptable even if new and complex bureaucratic procedures are created to control the actual environmental policies of the states, so we shall abstain. we are opposed to the report because the rapporteur wants to add additional accounting forms: the first reading agreement was reached with the council making the introduction of the new modules proposed by the rapporteur subject to evaluation under the review clause in order to modify or improve the data quality and the methods of data collection, where appropriate. we believe that all this modularity is a new and costly bureaucracy for the member states.
madam president, i too would like to thank mr audy and the whole itre committee for the excellent work they have done and for the good debate that has developed on this extremely important subject. i think there is one element which has not yet been said in this house today, and that is the recognition of the backwardness of europe in research and innovation. we are right to boast of the results we have achieved, but we would do just as well to recognise our backwardness in some areas not only in relation to the united states, our traditional competitor, but also in relation to very vigorous competitors such as china and other countries. i therefore believe that europe - if it does not want to die in a self-imposed death - must decide to invest more in research and innovation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i mean, that's definitely the problem with problems! having said that, i believe that the issues raised by my colleagues audy and carvalho - which i will address in other speeches - are all worth mentioning: from simplification to the need to coordinate funding, from the attempt to develop europe 2020 as well, excellence and innovation, bearing in mind that we have two main strands: the second is that the european union is not a single market, but a single market in which the people of europe are the only ones who can benefit from the european union's policies.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin, tá mé fíorbhuíoch as ucht an díospóireacht shaibhir a bhí againn anseo tráthnóna agus ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghlacadh leis na feisirí ar fad a ghlac páirt sa díospóireacht shaibhir sin. i will work closely with this house as we move forward and build a future programme for research and innovation with a genuine european added value. by the end of the year – on 30 november in fact – we will put on the table our proposals for future funding programmes for research and innovation within the common strategic framework. we have already set out some ideas in our green paper about how to achieve this by bringing together the different instruments at eu level under a single umbrella. we can support the whole innovation chain, all the way from the basic research to market deployment. in this way, i believe, we will get the maximum impact from our investments. i look forward very much to hearing the outcome of your debates on our green paper, which i understand will be adopted in late summer. i can assure you that the enriching inputs given by the carvalho, merkies, audy and matias reports will be duly taken into account when preparing the legislative proposals. finally, let me recall that on 10 june we will organise the wrap-up event of the green paper consultation to which several members of this parliament have been invited, some of you as speakers. i would like to inform the members of the house that more than 1 300 responses to the online questionnaire were received. there were also an unprecedented number of position papers. we received over 700 such papers from national governments, from european-level associations, from businesses, from universities, and from regional and local organisations. replies came from all countries of the european union and beyond. i believe that this has shown the great interest that europe attaches to research and innovation as policies for our future growth. so let me thank you once again for the insight and the impetus that this house has given to the fp7 interim evaluation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question to the commission on eu-canada trade relations, by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000053/2011 - b7-0213/2011).
madam president, i must say that some of us in this house still feel a sense of fear and a sense of defence of the european interest, and are on the defensive. as far as i am concerned, i believe that this agreement with a country with which we have an old bond of friendship is important, provided that it is based on the right principles, on genuine reciprocity and is a balanced and ambitious agreement, not limited to the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers, but represents an opportunity for a qualitative leap in the elimination of environmental and health differences, particularly in the agricultural sector, the protection of endangered animal species or particular economic extractive activities with a high environmental impact - i am referring to asbestos or tar sands - or which penalize access to pharmaceuticals in the poorest countries. but we must take a positive and not a defensive attitude, as we have done with japan. i therefore stress the need to improve reciprocity in the protection of intellectual property, including trademarks, geographical indications and policies for the mutual promotion of bilateral investment, mainly oriented towards innovation and technologies and inspired by the positions already taken in this field by the european parliament. madam president, i believe that the many bilateral agreements between canada and the member states are the best basis for a free trade agreement, thanks to the friendship we have already experienced in the un, the g8, nato and the international security assistance force in afghanistan, a friendship based on the democratic and freedom-loving ideals that are typical of our two countries: canada and the european union.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin agus a fheisirí uaisle, ba mhaith liom i dtosach báire buíochas a ghlacadh leis na feisirí uile a ghlac páirt sa díospóireacht seo agus leis an bhfeisire moreira as ucht an cheist a chur os comhair na parlaiminte. the commission has taken careful note of the substance of your questions and i do hope that the answers address your possible underlying concerns. as you know, the negotiations are making good progress. the commission wants to ensure a balanced, ambitious, high-quality agreement and it wants to be equally ambitious on sustainable development. canada is a highly developed, like-minded partner with strategic links going far beyond trade and investment. the eu and canada share the ambitious negotiation objectives that can be realised to our mutual benefit, creating potential for new opportunities. let me emphasise two things in particular. as regards the oil sands issues and your concerns in relation to this negotiation, for the fuels quality directive to fall within the scope of ceta’s regulatory cooperation provisions, both parties would need to agree. ceta’s regulatory cooperation provisions would not impose any obligation to hold such discussions. furthermore the commission does not propose entering into any commitment that would restrict the regulatory freedom of the eu, be it on environmental issues such as fuel quality, or on any other essential policy objective. as i mentioned in the introduction, this agreement is hugely beneficial to our two economies and not just in material terms. in both countries opportunities will be created for business and the manufacturing sector, thanks to the elimination of substantially all imported tariffs and improved market access for services and investors. consumers will gain through more affordable purchases and enhanced access to high-quality services. at the same time, increased flows of foreign direct investment would act as a catalyst to creating jobs and boosting wages. the ceta will also cover regulatory barriers such as sanitary and phytosanitary measures, customs procedures and competition rules. european intellectual property rights will gain increased protection. reciprocal access to both sides’ procurement markets would not only mean savings for public budgets but also provide huge business opportunities. this is why the commission is convinced that this will be a good and balanced agreement. our very debate tonight allows for important clarifications to be made. in this context, the commission takes careful note, welcomes the resolution to be adopted by parliament on eu-canada trade relations and is grateful for its general support. my colleague, commissioner de gucht, will, of course, continue to keep you informed of further developments in the ceta process.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, and i shall be voting in favour of the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on credit rating agencies: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action plan.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs wallis on the work she has done and on the content of her report, which i fully agree with. i believe that only an optional instrument to be adopted by means of a regulation can adequately fulfil the objectives of the whole reform of european contract law. moreover, an optional instrument would neither harmonise nor replace the contract law of the member states, but would complement it by offering an alternative instrument of free choice for contracting parties. i therefore do not agree with the proposals put forward by those who would prefer to limit the scope of this instrument to electronic commerce contracts only, as this would create an artificial and, above all, unnecessary distinction between online and direct transactions. our task is not to limit the legal nature of the regulation on the basis of speculation or market projections, but as legislators, to ensure legal certainty and to lay the foundations for a common legal language in commercial matters.
mr president, we are discussing a very serious situation, but i think that in some cases it is still very confusing. it is clear that you cannot equate the loss of life with economic problems. that's not what we're doing. i would also like to stress that identifying the causes - which are not such - is not the way to solve the problem. if a murder is committed and an innocent man is put in prison, that does not bring relief and justice to the murder committed. but that's what we're doing. in the face of a very serious situation with a health crisis, with food security in question, we are identifying culprits who are not proven to be culprits causing further casualties. the spanish farmers have already taken to the streets and today, in about forty minutes, direct farmers in italy will also take to the streets in milan and the province of latina to offer consumers fresh cucumbers and fruit and vegetables to demonstrate that they are healthy foods, important for a healthy and balanced diet. we do not want to add to the german consumer's misery by depriving him of food that is absolutely essential to his diet and his health. i would also like to mention some facts which should make the competent authorities, in particular, think seriously when they disclose information which creates alarm, psychosis and panic. these are data provided by eurobarometer and processed by coldiretti in italy: for example, 43 percent of italians avoid foods they have heard about for a period of time when faced with a food emergency, while 13 percent exclude them from their diet permanently. so let's try to figure out what we're talking about and how we're going to affect people's eating habits. i would therefore urge the commission to consider whether it is appropriate to trigger the european emergency clause and to speed up the debate on financial compensation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the search for the source of the e. coli epidemic is proving complex: the latest tests on samples of soybean sprouts, the suspected source of the infection and responsible for the deaths of 20 people in europe and of over 300 serious cases diagnosed in germany alone, have also come back negative. the immediate consequence of the outbreak was a sharp fall in fruit and vegetable consumption across europe. although precise information on the extent of the losses in the european fruit and vegetable sector as a result of the e. coli crisis is not yet available, it is clear that the economic damage to this sector will not be negligible. i have already tabled a parliamentary question on this subject, and i would like to take this opportunity to stress the need for the union to commit itself to supporting european producers in this sector with instruments appropriate to the gravity of the crisis. i would also like to draw the commission's attention to the need to consider introducing measures to improve the preservation of fruit and vegetables and to increase controls on their packaging.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, i would first of all like to acknowledge and commend the work of the rapporteur, mr saïd el khadraoui, who has been working with all his strength to find a possible mediation. i think that is why the usual procedure should have been followed, but because the correlation tables were not included in the final agreement, this dossier should have been conciliated, which would have been a good opportunity to reach an overall agreement. and that, unfortunately, as has been said, is not a detail. the polluter pays principle is correct, valid and accepted, and for the avoidance of doubt, i am in favour of greening transport, but this instrument - the euro-vignette - is unfortunately partial, ineffective and unfair. in a period of great economic difficulty, such as the one we are now experiencing, the choice to target a major economic sector in our market is merely to make money, even if that money is not used, if at all, in transport infrastructure. i think it introduces a very complicated mechanism, even in applied computing. i am therefore critical of this dossier because i believe that it penalizes the geographically peripheral countries in an unacceptable way in the europe of economic and territorial cohesion. the effectiveness of the measure is not proven and the modulation of transport flows creates problems for existing and future financial projects because the tariffs are constantly shifted and changed. i am told that the member states are free to apply these increases or not, but when it comes to cross-border transport, we are also dependent on the decisions of others and therefore an agreement must be reached. i am convinced that an agreement reached at all costs, at the expense of the road transport categories, cannot be considered a success. i really believe that we have a long way to go, especially in terms of application equity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the need to make freight transport more sustainable, but this is achieved mainly through infrastructure investment and the gradual replacement of the fleet. the environmental spirit of the eurovignette and the application of the polluter-pays principle actually conceal a serious competitive disadvantage for some countries compared to others, with a heavy impact not only on their road transport sector, largely composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also on their respective country systems; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. the negotiations have produced some small positive results - i am thinking of the issue of interoperability, mini-hire marketing in mountain areas - but overall they are unsatisfactory and i believe that a possible conciliation procedure would be the best way to smooth out the remaining unresolved issues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that the internal market is one of the great achievements of our union and that it includes efficient transport structures. but i myself live on a route that carries 50 million tonnes of goods a year, and i think that alongside the right of people to efficient transport there is also a right of other people to be protected from the burdens and effects of this transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european railway system is not affected by the noise pollution caused by the use of the railway. it is also positive that in mountainous areas a higher premium can be charged. what i find particularly worrying is that the principle of voluntary action is being applied here, so that countries which do not want these euro-vignette still do not have to implement them. this not only leads to discrimination in europe, but it is also extremely worrying in terms of the impact on people.
mr president, i am not exactly against the motion, but as we are approving the draft agenda for the whole week on monday afternoon, i wonder why this motion for a recess was not tabled yesterday but only now, in the immediate aftermath of the vote.
in writing. − the cv submitted by mr wessberg for appointment as a member of the court of auditors sets out a profile of skills and experience which is certainly in line with the technical and scientific standards required for the post. in particular, mr wessberg's commitment to the private entrepreneurial fabric makes him particularly suited to ensure the balance between community law and the concrete needs of both the market and european citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the court of auditors can benefit from mr wessberg's experience in the financial management of the institutions. the candidate fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu and his cv includes a number of senior positions in financial management and budgetary control in public institutions and private companies. the answers to the questionnaire show the seriousness and motivation of the candidate.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's request to waive the immunity of the honourable member in this case. the case against her stems from an incident which took place in early 2004, when she was not yet a member of the european parliament. it is clear that the provisions of the rules of procedure relating to parliamentary immunity and privileges cannot be applied, and the waiver of immunity therefore respects the legal provisions governing the institutional and legal life of our assembly.
in writing. − on 6 july 2010, the central district court of buda sent a request for the waiver of the immunity of ms ágnes hankiss, in relation to a new criminal case ordered by the supreme court of the republic of hungary in 2009. on 23 january 2004, following a statement made on the programme, ms ágnes hankiss was charged with an alleged offence of defamation of honour committed in public, in particular, defamation of the memory of a deceased person. the budapest municipal court of final appeal acquitted ágnes hankiss of the charges on 25 march 2009, but the hungarian supreme court on 12 november 2009 ordered the opening of a new trial at the central district court of buda, which was opened on 31 march 2010 and suspended on the same day for the parliamentary immunity of ms ágnes hankiss. for these reasons, and since the case does not fall within the scope of the political activity of mrs ágnes hankiss as a member of the european parliament, as regards a statement made long before she was elected to the european parliament, i am voting in favour of her being granted immunity.
in writing. - mr president, regulations (ec) no 1541/98 and (eec) no 3030/93, which were originally adopted with the aim of applying trade policy measures to the textile sector, have now become two outdated texts which place limits on the free market and are ill-suited to the evolution of the new regulatory environment. until recently, there were quantitative restrictions on imports from wto member countries and special safeguard measures for those textile products from the prc. as the wto agreement expired in 2005, these restrictions were removed, also for the prc in 2008, therefore the only effective tool to prevent market distortions and at the same time continue to control imports of textile products remains the subordination of textile products to verification procedures requiring the indication of the country of origin. this is also stated in the proposal for a regulation on made in, voted on in this house on 21 october 2010, which introduces a control mechanism and aims to simplify the legislation in force, with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative framework for businesses and consumer protection.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's textile industry is not left to the mercy of the market. the rapporteur's arguments that future legislation on made-in and new agreements within the world trade organisation will soon be a good solution to defend our industry do not seem to hold water: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it certainly seems wiser to wait until a clear regulatory framework is defined to regulate the import of certain textile products from the east in the future before proceeding to repeal the old regulations. i therefore vote against.
in writing. − we strongly supported this report in view of the eu's political commitment to simplify existing legislation: we want to create a better and clearer regulatory environment for business. european trade policy measures in the textile sector can be managed without imposing an excessive burden of proof of origin for all imports. to continue to control imports of textile products subject to quantitative restrictions still in force and originating in countries not yet members of the wto, the eu will rely on import authorisations; while for product categories falling within section xi of the combined nomenclature, not subject to quantitative restrictions on imports and released for free circulation in the eu, an ex post statistical surveillance system will be applied to monitor their impact on the european market. it should be recalled that, since 2010, in order to better inform consumers about the origin of various products, the indication of the country of origin of certain third-country products has been mandatory in addition to the abovementioned import control mechanisms. we will now have to work on improving the uniformity of import rules by aligning those for textiles with those for other industrial products, thus improving the overall consistency of the legislative framework in this area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this report because it is based on unfounded assumptions and vague assumptions about the future. on the one hand, it is argued that the proof of origin is useless, since it is claimed that the european union can protect itself by relying on an ex post customs statistical surveillance system: however, it is not mentioned, for example, that the 'updated community customs code' is far from being fully operational and that it still has obvious shortcomings, especially in terms of the complete and necessary computerization of the system. at the same time, it is expressly stated that the implementation of the muscardini report on made in, which we have strongly supported, is planned to support the protection of the trademark of origin; i am glad that the rapporteur is so confident, but at the moment there is no regulation on the made-in system, and we do not know whether, when or how it will be adopted. in essence, therefore, this report seems to me to be a dangerous leap into the void, with heavy effects as usual on the textile sector, which the european union continues to torment in the conscious general indifference.
in writing. the adoption of mr zahradil's proposal reopens the debate on the importance of a designation of origin for products from third countries as a means of implementing a trade policy capable of avoiding market disturbances due to an increase in foreign imports and of resolving the complicated legislative situation which today hinders the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. i am therefore in favour of a regulation which would harmonise the rules for european textile imports, currently in force, and bring them into line with those for other industrial sectors, but i think it is worth recalling that despite the efforts made to assess, through ex ante and ex post control mechanisms, the impact on the european market of imports from third countries, the european union has not yet been able to establish a control mechanism based on fair and important information for consumers such as origin labelling. i hope that the council will also be able to assess positively, and in a timely manner, the decisive steps taken by this parliament towards traceability and adequate information on products, measures which can both ensure appropriate and reliable knowledge of goods on the market and enhance the specificity of european manufacturing.
in writing. the commission's proposal to repeal council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 on the attestation of origin for certain textile products and to amend council regulation (ec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries aims to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, especially as regards the simplification of administrative formalities carried out by importers of certain textile products put into free circulation in the community. the requirements for attesting the proof of origin of textile products were introduced in order to ensure the correct application of the import restriction measures, in order to avoid market distortions due to imports from the people's republic of china. the impact and number of measures applied by the eu to imports of these products has gradually decreased in recent years, as special safeguard provisions have been created for imports of textile and clothing products originating in the people's republic of china and quantitative restrictions on imports originating in countries that are members of the wto have been removed. for the reasons i have given, i shall vote in favour.
(ppe), in writing. - (de) i shall be voting against the report. - i congratulate mr zahradil on his excellent work. the very limited trade policy measures applied by the eu in the textile sector can be managed without imposing an excessive burden of proof of origin for all imports. however, the instruments for monitoring imports of textile products must be maintained. in fact, to continue to control imports of textile products subject to quantitative restrictions still in force and originating in belarus and north korea, which are not yet wto members, the eu now relies on import authorisations. this helps to prevent the problem of market distortions that would be caused by an increase in imports of certain textile products to the eu market, in case of non-compliance with the permitted quotas. in addition, for product categories not subject to quantitative restrictions on imports and released for free circulation in the eu, an ex post statistical surveillance system is applied to monitor their impact on the eu market. i would also like to recall that in 2010 the european parliament approved, at first reading, the report by ms cristiana muscardini on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries (made in), which also covers textiles and clothing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the spirit of the report: simplify and harmonise eu rules on the import of textile products in order to facilitate trade with third countries. i believe that the limited trade policy measures applied by the eu to the textile sector are fully manageable even without imposing the excessive burden of providing proof of origin for all imports. furthermore, import authorisations, ex post statistical surveillance systems and single administrative document requirements already ensure effective control of imports into the union. i hope that the muscardini report will be fully implemented, which will enable european consumers to be better informed about the origin of products, including textiles, from third countries.
in writing. the legislation which is being repealed in this case concerns the conditions for acceptance of statements of origin for certain textile products originating in third countries, which set out specific requirements by applying quantitative restrictions. the rapporteur shares the commission's view that the eu's trade policy measures in the textile sector can be managed without imposing an excessive burden of proof of origin for all imports. it is in the interests of both consumers and businesses to ensure that any burden imposed on importers of goods from third countries is useful for their control and limitation. we are also concerned that we are going to repeal rules which are useful for customs controls without any progress being made on made in, which is blocked in the commission because of the council's obstructionism. i would also like to point out that the council has vetoed the indication of origin in the ad hoc textile measure and is attempting to do the same with regard to the obligation to indicate the place of origin on the labelling of foodstuffs. we are voting against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs serracchiani on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on the participation of the republic of croatia in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, as i believe that it would be a mutually beneficial exchange for both parties. on the one hand, as croatia is one of the main transit routes for drugs into the eu, its participation in the observatory would provide concrete and decisive information in support of the efforts to combat this illegal traffic; on the other hand, croatia could draw on european best practices to address and counter this phenomenon.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, considering that croatia will be an important partner for the future of the european union in its relations with the countries of the former yugoslavia, and that that territory is a key area for the passage of narcotic substances, we welcome the accession of the candidate country to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. it is vital for us to be able to meet and work with croatian experts in this field to combat this sad phenomenon, which is why i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in voting today i supported the recommendation on the participation of the republic of croatia in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the republic of croatia will participate in the european drugs and drug addiction observatory's work programme, whose main task is to collect data on drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and disseminate objective, reliable and comparable information at european level. the issue is clearly very important, both because of its significant effects on the protection of the right to health and because of the fight against the criminal phenomena associated with the drug market. croatia is one of the sea routes commonly used by organised crime to smuggle illicit drugs from the countries of production to those of consumption. and this is all the more worrying for us, considering that croatia is the next candidate country to become a member of the eu. i therefore hope that croatia's participation in the work programme will prove to be of the greatest benefit.
in writing. − the use and illicit trafficking of drugs are a worldwide phenomenon that threatens health and social stability. the republic of croatia is a transit route through which illicit drugs are smuggled from the countries of production to those of consumption. in addition, drugrelated deaths have been increasing steadily over the past 10 years. despite the ongoing training of police officers and the provision of the necessary equipment, the outcomes of drug-related crime investigations and prosecutions need further improvement. croatia remains on one of the main drug trafficking routes into the european union. we are certainly in favour of the adoption of a national programme for the prevention of drug use among young people, which would update existing programmes; we therefore approve the participation of the republic of croatia in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in writing. − the emcdda is the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, set up in 1993 with the main task of collecting data on drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and disseminate reliable and compatible objective data at european level. the information provided by the observatory is used to analyse the quantities of drugs entering the eu and, for all those phenomena associated with the drug market, to analyse the best methods for combating these phenomena. the observatory shall be open to the participation of third countries which share the interest of the union and its member states in the objectives and achievements of the observatory. in 2005, croatia requested to participate in the work of the observatory and in 2006, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the republic of croatia, which were successfully concluded in july 2009 with the signing of the agreement. the agreement was subsequently revised in december 2009 in the light of the treaty of lisbon. it should be remembered that croatia is already part of reitox, the european information network on drugs and drug addiction. for the reasons i have just mentioned and in order to ensure that we can always have better cooperation with non-european countries, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − croatia has applied to join the drugs and drug addiction observatory in 2005. as this country is one of the main routes for drug trafficking to the eu, i think it is important that croatia has concrete and objective information on these phenomena. the rapporteur's position is therefore fully shared and i support this measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the protection of the health and social stability of european citizens is a priority objective to be borne in mind in the fight against the use and illicit trafficking of drugs. croatia is on one of the main drug trafficking routes into the european union. its participation in the work programme of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction will enable the european union to have concrete information on drug trafficking and use in croatia and croatia to understand the extent of its drug problems and to adopt best practices to address them. furthermore, such participation is based on a sound legal basis in article 21 of regulation (ec) no 1920/2006 establishing the emcdda, which also opens the doors of the emcdda to third countries that share its objectives and interests.
in writing. - euro banknotes and coins are a true pan-european means of payment, the euro area currently comprising 16 member states. in most cases, because of incompatibilities between national laws, it is very difficult for professional cash transport companies to transfer euro cash between euro area member states, and this transport is currently very limited. as a result, the need for crossborder transport of euro cash by road has increased considerably. the new proposal for a regulation aims to extend the scope of the legislation on the crossborder transport of euro cash by road between euro area member states to the territory of member states which are about to adopt the euro. the main proposal is to extend the scope of crossborder transport legislation between euro area member states, without forgetting that the period before the changeover to the euro as the national currency for the new member states entails a greater need to transport cash in euro. for these reasons and in order to have a clear regulation on this subject, i am voting in favour of the regulation under consideration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the regulation on the crossborder transport of euro cash by road between member states should be extended to cover the territory of countries about to introduce the single currency. in the period before the introduction of the single currency on their territory, these countries need a greater amount of cash to be able to enter fully and rapidly into the european union's trade and thus become fully part of it.
in writing. - in a prudent spirit, i decided not to vote on mrs ţicău's report because, although an action plan on global satellite navigation systems could be considered strategic in order to provide signals for civilian use and to ensure that european industry has the opportunity to compete in a constantly growing market share, there are a number of critical points which have not been addressed. these include possible data protection risks, but above all the uncertainty about the sources of funding for galileo's annual maintenance cost, estimated at around €800 million. the lack of clarity on the financial sustainability of such an important project for the european economy, but also ambitious, requires a cautious and concrete approach.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although we agree with some of the points made by our colleague, we are puzzled by many others. identify how the estimated eur 800 million annual maintenance cost of galileo will be financed once it is operational. the possible data protection risks associated with the use of gnss applications and services and the pressing need to provide additional funding for the rapid success of egnos and galileo-related operations. that is why the proposal cannot be rejected, but it cannot have my full support.
in writing. − with the publication of the global navigation satellite systems (gnss) action plan and the development and deployment of egnos (european geostationary navigation overlay service), the european union has sought to indicate the way forward for civilian use and to ensure that all european industry has the opportunity to compete within this strategic and fast-growing market. we agree with the commission's targeted action plan, which includes 15 sectoral measures, nine of which are of immediate and important application in transport, especially as regards the promotion of egnos in third countries. in fact, if this system is to be really effective from the point of view of transport, its coverage must go beyond the european borders, reaching the neighbouring countries. it is therefore essential to extend it to the regions of northern, eastern and south-eastern europe. in addition, in the field of civil aviation, we call on the member states to give priority to egnos-based procedures and services, with a view to creating a single european airspace. it is also clear that both egnos and gnss make an important contribution to safety and environmental protection. to achieve these objectives, adequate investment in european research and development is needed.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs ţicău's report because i think it is right that new technologies, such as satellite navigation systems, which are becoming more and more widespread and useful to the public, should be applied to the transport sector. in the global system we live in, the eu must adapt its policies to the needs of the various sectors and provide a global satellite navigation system that integrates seamlessly with the well-known gps system to provide instantaneous and error-free guidance. with a large growth market and estimated figures of over eur 200 billion over the next 10 years, satellite navigation needs adequate funding opportunities to foster its real development.
in writing. − the global satellite navigation systems sector has experienced a strong expansion since its first use in 2000 in america. it is estimated that by 2025 its global market value will be 230 billion, of which 20% is represented by intelligent transport systems and 5% by security applications. in june 2010, the commission published the action plan on european global navigation satellite systems (gnss) and in particular for the european system egnos: this plan also includes 24 specific recommendations for action. in order to further develop the egnos system, priority must be given to the measures proposed in the action plan and adequate investment and funding in research and development activities is absolutely necessary. in fact, a lack of community funding for small and mediumsized enterprises to participate in this research project through fp7/8 would make it less attractive to commercial operators. for the further development of the egnos system and to ensure that this system does not suffer from a lack of community funding, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the report on the transport applications of the global navigation satellite system was voted on today at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. in 2010, the commission published the global navigation satellite systems (gnss) action plan. the action plan outlines the remedies needed to ensure that satellite navigation is guaranteed to be successful. the action plan is part of the wider deployment of global satellite navigation systems and, in particular, the development and deployment of egnos (european geostationary navigation satellite service). egnos is the forerunner of the galileo system. the eu has launched the egnos and galileo projects to provide signals for civilian use, and to ensure that all european industry has an opportunity to compete within this strategic and growing market. i believe that, as mr ticau has pointed out, it is necessary to provide additional funding for the galileo programme and therefore the possibility of providing for a galileo reserve fund within the community budget to cover the additional costs, while avoiding damage to the other programmes.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's action plan for the development of egnos and galileo is based on nine horizontal measures of immediate application in the transport sector. a widespread deployment of egnos across europe to neighbouring third countries will have a strong positive impact on the union's economy as a whole and on safety and environmental objectives, as well as facilitating a smoother flow of road traffic. however, to achieve these objectives, adequate investment in research and development is needed, which has so far been insufficient. the european union is the only trading bloc that does not directly finance its gnss programme.
in writing. - the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has increased the number of cases in which the european parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. airline agreements now fall into this category. the new powers of parliament established by the treaty imply new responsibilities to ensure that parliament and the committee responsible are adequately informed about the preparation of agreements on which parliament will be asked to give its consent. in the light of this change, i welcome the corresponding new responsibility of parliament to monitor more closely the conduct of the negotiations. i take this opportunity to emphasize that in order to be in the best position to assess whether or not to give approval at the end of the negotiations, it is essential that parliament follows the process from its initial stage rather than after the conclusion of the negotiations themselves. finally, i renew my call on the commission to encourage a constant exchange of information with the european parliament by regularly submitting reports analysing the strengths and weaknesses of existing agreements. i believe that this instrument will enable parliament to evaluate future agreements more effectively.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution on the conclusion of international air agreements recognizes many of the key principles supported by the northern league. among these is the need to guarantee equal market access rights for airlines from all member states, avoiding hidden dumping directly financed by national policies, which is contrary to community state aid rules. the motion also expresses concern for the safety of citizens, recognising the fundamental importance of the development of a safety reference framework. a further principle defended by the lega nord and welcomed in this motion concerns transparency between the work of the european institutions and the citizens of the union, whose interests are directly represented in parliament. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment. for the reasons already mentioned, i have decided to vote in favour of this motion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the growing importance of the contribution of the aviation sector brings many benefits to the european economy, but also several disadvantages. in order to enable the institution of which i am a member to know in detail what type of agreement is worth approving or not, i think it is appropriate to give parliament greater powers of scrutiny. the vote we are about to take would be the result of a careful examination of the outcome of the negotiations which will have to promote respect for international sectoral laws on social rights, full recognition of certification practices and procedures, the exchange of safety data and joint inspections. only by adopting ambitious agreements which reflect the principles to which the european union refers can we make a valuable contribution to the work and improvement of the eu.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new powers deriving from the treaty of lisbon also allow us to have a say in its agreements on airspace. the report emphasises fair competition, including monitoring of state funding, environmental considerations and a high standard of passenger rights. all of this is in our favour and that is why i support the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at today's sitting i voted in favour of mr simpson's report on international air transport agreements under the treaty of lisbon. following the entry into force of the treaty on 1 december 2009, the european parliament acquired the right to give its consent to agreements in areas covered by the ordinary legislative procedure. this is a major step forward, especially in relation to the so-called democratic deficit in the eu, if we remember that previously parliament, a body democratically elected by european citizens, was only consulted on the conclusion of such agreements. we therefore expect the commission to respond to our call to maintain the flow of information and to provide the committee responsible with all the information concerning its intention to propose negotiations with a view to concluding and amending international air agreements, in such a way as to enable the whole of parliament to express its opinion in full knowledge of the facts.
in writing. - under the lisbon treaty, air services agreements require the approval of the european parliament, since they concern a sector to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. we agree with the idea of the committee on transport and tourism to establish some general principles on how airline agreements should be evaluated from a substantive point of view. in addition, it must be adequately informed during the negotiations so that it can make its priorities known well before it is asked to give an opinion in favour or against the approval; it is therefore necessary for parliament to follow the legislative procedure from the outset. general agreements with neighbouring countries or with important global partners can provide substantial benefits to european passengers and transport operators by improving services, both in terms of variety and cost, while offering new opportunities for airlines to make a profit. regulatory convergence can be very important in promoting fair competition. finally, we support the importance of opening negotiations with important asian trading partners such as the people's republic of china and india, since the economic growth of the whole region makes such agreements increasingly relevant to the development of world trade.
in writing. - since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, parliament has strengthened its role in the conclusion of international air services agreements. the tran committee decided to draw up an own-initiative report with the aim of establishing some general principles concerning the rules for evaluating air agreements from a substantive point of view and concerning the procedures which the committee can adopt to ensure that it is adequately informed during the negotiations and to be able to make its priorities known well before it is called upon to give an opinion for approval. these agreements can be divided into three types: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. a number of criteria are recommended for assessing their content, including balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, and fair competition, in terms of state, environmental and social subsidies. in order to maintain a continuous flow of information and to enable a better analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of these agreements, i am voting in favour.
in writing. the report sets out the general guidelines for proper communication between parliament and the commission when adopting international air services agreements and for the definition of common methods for evaluating such agreements. the treaty of lisbon has given parliament additional powers and corresponding responsibilities, and it must now monitor more closely the negotiation and conclusion of air services agreements. given the importance of these agreements, particularly in ensuring better services for passengers and new opportunities for operators, it is desirable that parliament should inform the commission of its concerns and its assessment criteria at an early stage, without waiting for the conclusion of the negotiations.
in writing. the report under discussion today is of particular importance because it provides for the amendment of directive 1999/62/ec on the taxation of heavy goods vehicles. i believe that the formulation of the proposal for a new directive, which is the result of a compromise between the hungarian presidency, the commission and parliament, is very damaging to the italian economy, which carries around a third, or about eur 200 billion a year, of all trade on european roads. as a result of the implementation of the directive in the european countries of transit, goods imported and exported from italy would be most likely to be subject to additional charges. i share the strongly critical view of the italian government that, in a period of great economic difficulty such as the present one, the political choice to hit a major economic category in our market is certainly not far-sighted. in my view, the small openings which were closed during the compromise do not have a decisive impact on a system which is highly negative both for the italian system and for the road transport sector. in addition, the effectiveness of the measure is not demonstrated: road transport, and its costs in terms of pollution production, will continue to rise until an intermodal infrastructure network is established.
in writing. the house voted in favour of the road toll directive, which represents a step forward in protecting the health of european citizens and a commitment to reducing the harmful effects of road freight pollution. by introducing the 'polluter pays' principle for the first time in this sector, the aim is to encourage more sustainable and safer transport, thus favouring alternatives such as rail transport. the compromise reached, however, also calls for consideration to be given to the protection of road transport, without penalising the sector excessively. it is therefore necessary that member states commit themselves to making effective use of the revenues generated by the eurovignette, for example by investing in improving the infrastructure network and encouraging the use of less polluting road transport vehicles, to ensure that the benefits of the directive are shared by all sectors concerned.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against the compromise text proposed, which appears to be in line with the position of the italian government, which had already expressed its opposition to this assumption in the council of the eu. the introduction of an additional taxation system for road hauliers is a very serious blow to a sector which in italy is a pillar of our commercial system. increasing the costs for these categories means increasing the burden on the community and penalizing our goods which are therefore less attractive on the demand side. i do not think that this compromise is the right solution, especially for a territory such as italy, which is the starting point of transport flows which are a source of wealth for our country system and which must be safeguarded by identifying appropriate instruments to combat air and noise pollution, but which take into account its structural and logistical peculiarities.
in writing. − directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures allows member states, if they so wish, to charge road users for certain external costs, thus giving them further opportunities to increase the efficiency of their national toll systems and thus providing them with a better tool for managing transport demand. we believe that in a period of great economic difficulty, the choice to hit a major economic sector in our market for the sole purpose of making money is not a particularly far-sighted political choice. the instrument thus identified, moreover, places an unacceptable burden on the geographically peripheral states, the countries of origin, departure or arrival of goods, to the advantage of the 'central' and transit countries. finally, the impact of this measure on traffic flows and thus on existing concessions, with the consequent risk of shifting these traffic elsewhere, is not taken into account in the development of the principle. the effectiveness of the measure is not demonstrated: road transport and its pollution costs will continue to rise: that is why we, the italian delegation of the epp, are opposed to this.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my negative vote on this proposal because it would have a very negative impact, especially on the smaller road haulage companies. it is certainly right to fight pollution and try to reduce traffic congestion, but the introduction of a further tax burden does not seem to me to be the best solution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european road haulage industry is not left behind. many small firms, especially in italy, risk having to leave the market because the burden would become excessive, and this would certainly have a heavy impact also from the employment point of view. i hope that other european countries will follow the italian government's line, which has already confirmed that it will not apply this measure: the crisis has hit the road transport sector hard and i do not think this new tax will help it much to recover.
in writing. the new eurovignette directive, which aims to encourage the implementation of harmonised charging systems between member states to improve the efficiency and environmental performance of road freight transport, ends up penalizing some peripheral states, such as italy, which are destinations of departure or arrival of goods. i therefore voted against the report amending the 1999 directive. instead of increasing competition and establishing common rules for the internal market, the new directive distorts competition to the advantage of certain states, which are at the centre of road transport in europe. under the pretext of reducing co2 emissions, a tax is being introduced which is intended to discourage road transport in favour of rail and intermodality. the directive, as conceived, represents a major blow to the whole road transport system at a time of economic stagnation when measures to revive the sector would be necessary.
in writing. - mr president, with the amendment of directive 1999/62/ec, member states will be able to charge road users for certain external (content) costs, thus definitively introducing the 'polluter pays' principle in road transport; these states will have further opportunities to increase the efficiency of their national toll systems, thus having a better tool for managing transport demand. this is why road tolls for the transport sector will reflect the cost of noise and air pollution as well as infrastructure costs. these costs will always take account of certain exceptions, provided that the requesting state has a good justification. there will be incentives to promote the renewal of the heavy vehicle fleet, derogations for heavy vehicles with less polluting engines and finally the toll price may vary according to the time of transit. this is to ensure that heavy vehicles can avoid certain road sections during rush hours. the money raised from this toll increase will have to be reinvested in transport infrastructure with at least 15% initially going to transeuropean transport projects. for these reasons and in the interests of a better european viability, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the recommendation is the last step in the process of amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (eurovignette). it is the result of long consultations and compromises, including with the various political groups. charging users for some of the associated external costs allows member states to increase the efficiency of their national toll systems, thus improving their capacity to manage transport demand. the 'polluter pays' principle also helps to empower users of the sector. finally, a transparent and effective allocation of revenues from infrastructure and external costs raises public support and accelerates the reduction of external costs of road transport.
in writing. - i voted against the text tabled by the rapporteur, mr saïd el khadraoui, which allows for a surcharge to be charged for air and noise pollution from heavy vehicles. although i agree with the so-called 'polluter pays' principle, it is rather questionable in a situation of economic crisis to impose additional taxes on tir motorway tolls, especially without the obligation to use the proceeds for investments to improve infrastructure. the text adopted does not help those member states, including italy, which suffer from geographical barriers which make the movement of goods for import/export more costly.
in writing. - i have welcomed the proposal of my colleague, for whom i voted in favour. european environmental policy is becoming increasingly crucial in the light of the economic crisis and the eu 2020 strategy, and only through reliable data can european environmental policy be monitored in depth. environmental data are the only tool for evaluating environmental policy and should be supplemented in the medium term with additional reliable information. in addition, data could be monitored more easily if reliable information on the interactions between environmental and economic factors were available: environmental economic accounts could contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the environmental impact of economic policies and will be instrumental in economic-environmental decision-making. the member states will have to have common methodologies, classifications and rules to be compiled within a framework binding on them, and it is hoped that these new measures will not entail additional costs or bureaucracy. the rapporteur believes that the proposal for a regulation under consideration is a first step towards the drawing up of a more comprehensive environmental accounting system.
in writing. − measuring the air quality of our cities and analysing this measurement in depth would be a step towards greater transparency of policy-making. this indicator, although it refers to chemical and physical quantities which are not immediately available for communication between elected officials and voters, is the result of a number of economic decisions: it indicates, among other things, the concentration of polluting economic activities, the composition of the energy mix used for production activities and for heating homes and offices, the use of motor vehicles and the management of road and traffic infrastructure, the insulation of buildings and the quality of materials used, the presence or absence of green areas, to name just a few. on the other hand, air quality has important consequences for health expenditure, particularly for the pulmonary and oncology departments. it is therefore clear that an environmental indicator can be transformed into an economic and political indicator. it can also point to new mechanisms to discourage vicious behaviour and to fund virtuous projects. these links help politicians to make better decisions in the interests of citizens. the first step is to establish the correct methodologies, and it is good that this is done.
in writing. - the treaty of amsterdam has placed great emphasis on the interrelationship between economic and environmental policy. this is why factors such as sustainable transport and energy resources have become key issues in other policy areas as well. in fact, as early as 2006, the european council called on member states to extend national accounts to the core aspects of sustainable development, in order to provide fully consistent data. i am voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that it will facilitate the work of the national statistical institutes by allowing the production of harmonised and timely data on environmental accounting. in this respect, the adoption of a european legal basis for the collection of data on environmental economic accounts will provide estimates at european level of the existing interaction between the economy and the environment. finally, i hope that this instrument can be seen as a further confirmation of the leading role played by the european union in environmental accounts worldwide.
in writing. − only with reliable data can european environmental policy be assessed in depth, which is why data collection by member states should be compulsory. we refer in particular to data on atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes for various economic activities and accounting for material flows at the macroeconomic level. in our view, environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, in particular by providing data on the environmental impact of economic activities, which could prove particularly useful for decision-making in economic-environmental matters. we support the need for a review clause and for the european commission to submit periodic reports on the practical implementation of the regulation. we believe it is important to check the reliability and comparability of the data in order to make some improvements and to ensure a high level of quality in economic and environmental accounting. due account should also be taken of the development of new modules and of the experience gained in the course of the pilot studies. the verification report should provide an opportunity to adapt the regulation in the light of the latest developments and experience gained.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on european environmental economic accounts is intended to provide useful tools for achieving some important objectives such as a european environmental accounting strategy and a deepening of the work of the statistical institutes which provide data on the subject to the administrative bodies. i voted in favour of the text because i believe that it is important for sustainable development to integrate environmental issues into the policies of the union and to have national accounts and a european programme with integrated economic and environmental accounting on transport, recycling and waste prevention, atmospheric emissions, climate change, sustainable production and consumption.
in writing. − the european council in 2006 called on the european union and its member states to extend statistical data for sustainable development and existing national accounts data. the commission itself in 2009 in its communication 'more than gdp: measuring progress in a changing world' proposed several measures to be taken in the short and medium term on the definition of broad indicators that create a more reliable cognitive basis for better public debate and more appropriate policy action. but the issues concerning the european environmental economic accounts were also discussed in particular. the in-depth assessment of european environmental economic accounts can only be done in the presence of reliable data, for this reason member states should be equipped with common methodology and accounting standards, definitions, classifications and rules to be developed in a framework binding on all states. in order to clarify the objectives pursued and the future orientations with regard to environmental economic accounts and so that they may constitute an indispensable element for decisions on economic and environmental matters, i am voting in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr jo leinen's text. in recent years, environmental policy and sustainability policy have become increasingly important, with increased attention to the integration of economic and environmental policy. climate change, sustainable transport, nature, biodiversity, the use and exploitation of raw materials and natural resources, and waste management have seen their importance in member states' policies increase exponentially. this is why evaluations of european environmental policy and eu thematic strategies can only be carried out in a serious and rigorous way if reliable data are provided.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - there was no real negotiation. it was a very general exchange of views, a kind of brainstorming. there was a conference before that called e-g8, which was attended by major players in the internet sector and the authorities. it wasn't a negotiation at all; i didn't see it that way. we asked these leaders of the big internet companies how they see the future of this sector and, on the other hand, with the different members of the g8, we shared our concerns, our interests and how we perceive the internet. but there has not really been any negotiation in terms of concrete results.
president of the commission. − no, i do not accept that. i think the european central bank is a very credible institution that has been managed with great wisdom and intelligence. the independence of the ecb is respected by all the member states of the euro area. of course we know that there are some difficulties in the euro area. as i have already said, they are difficulties which, to be fair, concern not only the euro area. unfortunately your criticism of the euro area is always ideological. the debt problems are not exclusive. on average, the debt in the euro area is lower than the debt in the uk, to give an example. but in fact we have different problems because this is the first time we have had this type of monetary union without some more integrated institutional setting. that is precisely why we are now trying to have a comprehensive response, and the ecb is part of the effort we are making to give financial stability to the euro area.
president of the commission. − first of all i do not lie and the commission has always been very consistent in the information it has given about all the situations. the situation is difficult; we have said it honestly from the beginning and we do not pretend the situation is a rosy one. having said this, the european central bank’s credibility relies on the absolute determination of the euro area governments to do whatever it takes to ensure the financial stability of the euro area, so i have no doubts about the system’s ability, of the efforts in the euro area and the credibility of the european central bank. i have no doubts about the capacity of the european central bank to defend european interests, nor about the commitment of the member states of the euro area to provide all the guarantees the european central bank needs to fulfil its independent role as our central bank. in terms of exposure of central banks, there are other central banks in europe and outside europe which are in a much more difficult and vulnerable situation than the european central bank, which is a credible, internationally much respected body of the european union.
president of the commission. − frankly, i do not understand the concern that is behind your question. in fact, we are a union of 27 democratic states and we have agreed that in common foreign and security policies decisions should be taken unanimously. if the member states do not agree unanimously, it is not possible for us to impose a decision on those member states, and thus we are fully respecting the democratic nature not only of our union, but also of our member states. i believe that it is in our interest as europeans, european citizens, that the member states act together in external matters. it is obvious that today in europe even the biggest member states do not have the necessary influence or leverage to talk on an equal basis with the united states or china and other powers, but together the european union can make a difference. so i hope that the process will lead to increased convergence in terms also of foreign policy matters between our member states.
president of the commission. − there are two questions here. first of all, the european parties are, as you know, recognised as important entities by the treaty that was ratified unanimously by our member states. so there is a reason to support the european parties because they are, in fact, european entities, recognised as such by our treaty. secondly, regarding cathy ashton, she is not only vice-president of the commission, but also high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. she has a very challenging job in which she has to represent the european union, so of course she has more travel assignments than most of the members of the commission. she makes a great personal effort to be present at almost all the commission meetings. she cannot be at all of them. however, i wish to point out that members of the commission are not there to represent countries. they are nominated by countries but they are there to represent the european union. all of us take an oath, when we assume our duties, saying that we are not there to represent countries, and in fact the credibility of the institution comes exactly from that fact – that we try to be independent and to serve the general european interest. i can tell you that the member states, including the uk, are very well represented in the european council by their prime ministers and in the council by the various ministers.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - the commission has just adopted the recommendation for each of the 27 countries and there is also a cover communication in which we present precisely the concern you have just mentioned, which is really very important to us. we know very well that austerity, which is necessary today because of the need to reduce the deficit and the debt, is really very difficult. at the same time, we believe that every euro now spent on interest on debt is one euro less for hospitals, for public health services, for public education, for social security. so this is real austerity. that is why we must make a very serious budgetary consultation effort to restore confidence and, at the same time, carry out structural reforms to ensure competitiveness but protecting the most vulnerable. i think you'll like our document that we adopted today. it is concerned with everything that has to do with the labour market: how to attract more people to the labour market, how to have this social dimension in all our policies? the question now is to see in each country what margin is left to guarantee these objectives. but i think we share the same goals.
mr president, i did not really want to comment on the g8 speech, but rather to ask president barroso a question about culture. in the european union there are many programmes which encourage young people - and not just young people - to meet each other, making this a real union. programmes such as comenius, lifelong learning, youth in action, etc., have been for many young people and professionals the real meeting place of the european union, inspiring a real europeanist feeling. (the president interrupted the speaker to explain that the debate was on another subject, but then invited him to continue...) i would therefore like to know what the fate of these programmes is, at least in the commission's forecasts, since they are about to expire and we should have already dealt with the matter in the cult committee. how does the commission intend to develop the next programming period from 2014 onwards? i believe that this is a subject of particular interest to many actors in the european union and to many young people in our countries.
president of the commission. − i agree with the perspective which was adopted by the g8. i think it is in our common interest to have not only open societies but open economies. these countries are our neighbours, and i think the best way to help them is through trade. we will never be able to provide the amount of money they need if they stay closed. for instance, in the maghreb countries – as you probably know – the reality is that trade among themselves is almost insignificant. they are asking us to open up our markets, but they do not trade among themselves. i think it is important that we say: yes we are ready to support you, but you should also open up your economy and integrate into the global economy. in fact we see that a country’s progress is very clearly linked to its capacity to integrate in a global economy. just look at asia with countries that are not yet democracies; it is because they were able to open up that they could participate in the global economy and reap some benefits for their peoples.
mr president, mr barroso, the final declaration of the g8 summit on the middle east states: "negotiations are the only way to a comprehensive and lasting solution to the conflict. israel and the palestinian authority should respect existing cooperation agreements and refrain from unilateral measures that could impede progress and reforms.' does the european union as an important partner of the g8 support this statement? if so, have you informed the palestinian side that it is planning a unilateral step in september at the un general assembly?
madam president, commissioner, taking advantage of the pragmatic approach you adopted in your speech, i would like to make two recommendations, which i also intend to use to enhance the work of monitoring the experience of the referendum recently done by mrs de keyser, who, in my view, has been most valuable to our institutions. i am referring to a very specific matter: i was not surprised that the referendum and its outcome were followed by a moment of further - almost - hardening by the sudanese institutions and authorities, especially in the abyei region. it is typical of khartoum's policy of continually stopping and going, of letting a solution show up and then canceling it out with a sudden behavior, a style that has produced the disaster that is sudan. i suggest that you do. we have created a structure within the external action service that deals explicitly with humanitarian crises, that structure needs to be alerted now about abyei and not when we face a major disaster. it must be set in motion because it is a credible structure, which has proved itself well, for example, in the context of the libyan crisis. i believe that this structure must be put in a position today to draw up a plan, to present it to the afet committee, explaining how it intends to proceed, so that we can understand how valuable the european union's foreign policy can be when we all work together for the better. one final recommendation concerns our relations with china: everywhere you hear china playing a big role in sudan, it's being portrayed as a specter that should be feared. i personally, however, believe that at this particular moment we need very careful and privileged relations with china in order to ascertain whether, beyond economic interests, it also intends to deal fully with the issue of human rights.
madam president, it is difficult to accompany the final steps of the formation of a new state along a peaceful path. the basic objective of peace must be safeguarded, but important parts of the overall agreement must not be lost. the military action by khartoum in abyei seems to be prejudicial to the overall success of this process, even if it does not affect the establishment of the 54th african state on 9 july. the south must not react to provocations and must not lose sight of the basic objective, which is not only independence but also the establishment of credible institutions and the development of a population of 90 per cent below the poverty line, which will not benefit from foreign investment, which already promises to be transparent and not plunder. i believe that this - the problem of foreign investment in south sudan - will soon be a new front on which the european union will have to watch and assert its credibility acquired in recent years in the region.
in writing. sudan, the largest country in sub-saharan africa, is a crossroads between the arab and african worlds and a mosaic of numerous and diverse ethnic groups. it has experienced numerous conflicts since its independence from the united kingdom in 1956. the signing of the naivasha accords and the comprehensive peace agreement (2005) formally ended the twenty-year-old north-south conflict. as provided for in the cpa, the referendum was held in january 2011 and marked the final stage of the path towards the independence of the south from north sudan. in this extremely delicate transition phase, a balanced approach between the north and the south of the country will be required, with particular attention to the needs of the south in terms of institution building and governance. eu aid to south sudan should also be calibrated to the effective absorption capacity of the new state entity. we must prevent future financial flows to juba from being misused or, worse, from fuelling the existing high levels of corruption. europe should also do more to protect the christian minorities in the north of the country, who are increasingly facing persecution and discrimination.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, article 4 (2) of the schengen accession act states that verification by an assessment procedure of the fulfilment by the new member states of the conditions necessary for the application of the schengen acquis is an essential requirement for the council to decide to abolish checks at internal borders with the states. we now believe that the very conditions - which we consider to be non-existent today - of a regulatory and operational nature, which prevent the infiltration of undesirable actors from bulgaria and romania who can undermine the security of the member states, would be necessary and urgent. the reports on the minutes of parliament are not reassuring because of the serious shortcomings at air, land and sea borders, starting with the implementation of checks. it is no coincidence that our police are confronted daily with numerous cases of illegal immigrants from these two countries. i suggest that the procedure for the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen system should be suspended on the basis of the precautionary principle, also in view of the foreseeable enormous pressure from the external borders towards these two countries, which are becoming the bottlenecks in the european union system for the entry of illegal immigrants.
mr president, while europe is turning a blind eye, the 2011 europol report on organised crime argues that with the entry of romania and bulgaria into schengen, powerful turkish, russian and albanian criminal organisations will be able to expand their activity across europe. again, and i quote, "illegal immigration from turkey will spread to the shores of bulgaria, drug and human trafficking will increase at the hands of turkish and albanian crime". furthermore, on human trafficking, 'the entry of romania and bulgaria into schengen could give bulgarian crime and roma communities new opportunities to increase their already substantial trafficking to the rest of europe.' in short, an increase in illegal immigration from turkey and in drug and human trafficking, less security for european citizens. europe wants to do a great favor to organized crime. the northern league party is and will always be against this kind of wicked choices. those who vote for this report tomorrow will be responsible for a vote that will open up a highway to organized crime that leads straight to the heart of europe.
mr president, commissioner, schengen is certainly a very valuable asset to civilisation. today we must welcome an important achievement, namely that we have included among the citizens of countries which can benefit from this fundamental instrument those of bulgaria and romania. the schengen area must therefore be consolidated and further strengthened: if there is one tangible testimony of european civilization, it is this: the right to european citizenship is given concrete expression in the schengen area. the schengen acquis is therefore a fundamental instrument for the legal economy and i am convinced that on 24 june this year the council will draw important insights from this which is intended to strengthen the feelings of trust and cooperation between the member states. of course, the evaluation mechanisms must be changed from intergovernmental to community systems, as mrs malmström has already announced in recent days, just as it is true that schengen governance certainly leads to greater cooperation, dynamic strengthening, but also to updating, transparency and dialogue. bulgaria and romania have met the requirements, and i congratulate mr coelho on his ability to combine freedom of movement and the safety of citizens with a balanced text, which was agreed by the libe committee.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, for this excellent report, which is part of the recent debate on the application of the schengen treaty. the existence of effective external border controls must be an important factor as the security of the schengen area depends on the efficiency with which each member state carries out controls at its external borders and although some problems still remain unresolved romania and bulgaria have shown that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the schengen acquis. there has been much discussion about the actual efficiency of the state apparatus in these two countries and about the level of corruption, but i think that the application of schengen should be independent of this, since - as has already happened for the other member states - it is sufficient to rely only on the efficiency of border controls and the readiness of the police forces. the addition of additional requirements would create a discriminatory precedent that has not been established even after the great enlargement of 2007.
member of the commission. − mr president, when the european system of protected designations of origin (pdos), protected geographical indications (pgis) and traditional specialities guaranteed (tsgs) was set up, equivalent systems already existed in some member states. the concept of geographical indications was thus familiar and names had already been registered at national level. this explains why there are many registered names in certain member states. nevertheless, growing interest in the system has been observed in many member states. the procedure for registering a name generally takes several years. this is because the applicant group has to draw up specifications and have them approved at national level and then by the commission. the single document summary of the specifications for geographical indications or the specifications themselves for traditional specialties are then published in the official journal of the european union in order to allow objections to be made. the objection period lasts six months. if there are no objections, the name may be registered. if an objection is lodged, the interested parties have six months to reach agreement. if no agreement is reached, the commission issues a decision that is voted on by the standing committee. this procedure explains the time required for registration to take place. on the other hand, once a name has been registered, it enjoys strong protection and international recognition and benefits from communication tools, particularly use of the logo. the commission is aware of the need to speed up the registration procedures. proposals to this end have been made in the context of the quality package, including reducing the time for the commission to scrutinise applications received to six months and reducing the objection period to two months. awareness of the system varies greatly from country to country, often depending on the number of registered names in a country. the commission makes funds for promoting quality products available to operators in order to raise consumer awareness of the system.
mr president, i am attaching great importance to the quality food debate. italy has suffered an economic loss of eur 20 million in the last two weeks as a result of the failure to sell vegetables, particularly cucumbers, due to the ehec bacterium. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the entire fruit and vegetable industry is on its knees. i therefore ask the commission what measures it intends to take to protect the fruit and vegetable market and what measures it intends to take to prevent the spread of uncertain information about the origins of the ehec bacterium, which is affecting the whole fruit and vegetable sector and causing panic among the population. this is quality food!
commissioner, the european commission will be putting forward its proposal for the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 by the end of next month. what actions - in addition to frontex, which you have already mentioned - does the european commission intend to finance to support the member states most affected by asylum applications and, above all, to prevent economic migration from becoming more frequent in the future? in other words, what actions does it intend to finance, through the mediterranean neighbourhood policies, to ensure that substantial migratory flows are prevented in the coming months and years?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr garriga polledo, also on behalf of the majority of my colleagues in the committee on agriculture, on the excellent work he has done in recent months. the debate on the future financial perspective was very lively and the report drawn up by my colleague is an effective summary, capable of covering the positions of the various national delegations and the various political groups. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i fully support the choice to keep the agricultural budget at least unchanged and i strongly oppose, as do many colleagues in the same committee, the amendment tabled by the alde group to accept any cuts in agricultural resources to finance other activities. i would remind my colleagues that the common agricultural policy is provided for in the treaties and that it is one of the few genuine european policies capable of playing an important role in a strategic sector capable of providing public goods and generating genuine european added value.
mr president, we are certainly facing one of the most critical moments in the economic history of the european union. the commission has been able to set up a committee this year which plays a key role in this. we are not against an increase in the budget, but we do think that we should look at where cuts can be made: i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a budget, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have a budget. i would like to draw your attention to the various funds allocated to enlargement policy, which sometimes go nowhere. and what about the countless funds spent on integration with such poor results? there are also some virtuous regions which do not have access to the funds, which are then granted to other regions which either do not use them, or use them badly or for matters which are not strictly legal. we are asking that this be given the utmost attention and that europe regain its credibility even through the rigorousness of the system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to highlight some aspects of this important report, starting with the revenue system of the european union. it is now clear that the current mechanism has too many inconsistencies, the most famous of which is the british correction. other various corrections and compensations have been added later, making the eu revenue mechanism completely unfair and completely non-transparent. at this point it would be better to move towards a system of direct revenue based on the gdp of the member states alone or towards a unified common revenue such as vat. of course, european citizens must not be subject to any additional burden, nor must europe replace the fiscal levy on the states, which must remain autonomous and fully sovereign in this area. the report identifies several priorities - some important, some less so - but all of them very costly. to raise funds, instruments such as project bonds and eurobonds can be used, but they must always be managed with the utmost rigor to avoid the risk of dangerously creating additional debt. as members of the european parliament, we can help to improve europe's finances now. finally, a single seat for parliament is chosen, saving tens of millions of euros a year! this is not demagoguery but it is simple .... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a strategic document of great importance, which offers the negotiations on the financial perspective for the period after 2013 a solid framework of reference, starting with the requirement of consistency between objectives and instruments, between the new role that the european institutions are called upon to play after lisbon and in the face of recession and the resources that we decide to invest together. this consistency also implies a serious response to the demand for innovation that emerges from public opinion, from the target groups of eu policies, from the social and productive forces in europe. we did it for cohesion - a crucial chapter in deciding what we want the european union to be in the years ahead: experience shows that cohesion is now a vital link in the european project, an important asset for all to safeguard, protect and renew. the effort to introduce an intermediate category of regions is particularly critical in this respect, especially since in several cases the recessionary years we have had behind us have widened the internal gaps, making it even more important to provide efficient and adequate support for the less developed regions of europe, to combat waste and to give a clear vision of development policy. i believe, however, that the challenge of the intermediate categories, with the safeguard clause, is a challenge we must accept in order to open a new phase in cohesion policy in europe and also to substantiate in cohesion policy the more balanced and more sustainable development we want to ensure for europe in the coming years.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done over the course of a year and on the broad political consensus he has achieved. i am pleased with the message this report has succeeded in conveying: the solution to the crisis is the union's assertion as a global actor. the future financial framework reflects the ambitions contained in the europe 2020 strategy and lays its firm foundations in the lisbon treaty; however, the credibility of all the priorities the union has set for itself requires adequate funding. the development of energy transport infrastructure, investment in research and development, training and youth policies must be given new impetus in the future union budgets, while the fundamental pillars of cohesion policy and agricultural policy must be maintained at the current level of funding. europe and its major projects are confronted with budgetary constraints at national level and this is why increased private sector involvement, through project bond issues or through public-private partnerships, is the key to increasing competitiveness and growth. i share the concern of the italian delegation about the proposals to include the so-called 'intermediate categories' in regional policy, as they risk harming the weakest regions of the union. i conclude by saying that the full financing of the union through a system based on own resources is the only way to guarantee the future and development of the european union.
mr president, i would like to express my substantial satisfaction at the adoption of the el khadraoui report. i think it represents a great step forward in terms of consumer and environmental protection, and this also in relation to the positions of individual states, which sometimes show delays. in short, i believe that by voting for this measure europe has shown that it is ahead of many member states, which will objectively have to adapt quickly to this situation. i come from a country whose government has belatedly expressed its interest in this directive and i hope that parliament's vote will be useful and serve as an incentive for a much higher attitude and attention in the near future.
mr president, the polluter pays principle is undoubtedly fundamental to solving the environmental problems aggravated by the industrial development of europe. however, it is not always appropriate to target only one category, but we must also defend the principle that it is not only the road hauliers who must pay, but also those in europe who do not support an alternative transport system with sufficient energy. europe still has too few programmes to convert the transport sector to greener and less environmentally-impact solutions, and resources to improve its efficiency and environmental performance are lacking. it is therefore necessary to recall that we cannot reduce our own traffic because, on the contrary, we must increase the number of crossings and transport and, therefore, road hauliers cannot be the only ones to pay for the ecological damage caused by others.
mr president, today's vote is a significant step forward in the introduction of the polluter pays principle, also in the road haulage sector, which contributes significantly to air and noise pollution. despite the criticisms raised by trade union organizations, i believe that the council's position is the best compromise possible at the moment, although i hope that improvements can be made in the future. i voted yes. i must point out, however, that efforts must be made to identify better ways of allocating the revenue, by making it compulsory for member states to invest these resources in improving the ten network and infrastructure to reduce pollution. only then can we say in the future that today's measure has had a positive effect.
mr president, thanks to the amsterdam treaty, environmental policy and sustainability policy have gained greater importance and attention has been focused on the integration of economic and environmental policy and the integration of environmental issues into policies and other areas. key areas include climate change, sustainable transport, nature, biodiversity, health and the environment, the use of natural resources and waste management, and the international dimension of sustainable development. in june 2006, the european council, in its conclusions, called on the union and its member states to extend national accounts to the core aspects of sustainable development. the national accounts must therefore be supplemented by integrated economic and environmental accounting, capable of providing fully consistent data. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it creates new uses for national accounting data, for environmental statistics and for other statistical areas.
mr president, romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the european union in 2007. these are two countries where border controls are still carried out because of the partial application of the provisions contained in the treaty. as has been shown by careful evaluations and visits by groups of experts, although the two countries have shown considerable commitment and clear progress in its implementation, some shortcomings still remain, such as those identified in the areas of instruments, the implementation of border controls and training. we believe, however, that we can confirm our support for their full accession to the agreement, even if we consider it essential that the two countries in question inform us in writing within six months of the implementation of additional measures to fill these gaps. we cannot ignore the fact and the consideration that the bulgaria-turkey-greece area is one of the most sensitive areas of the union's border policy in terms of illegal migration.
mr president, the document on the mid-term review of the seventh framework programme is particularly important. i voted in favour of this report for four reasons, which i consider to be of the highest priority: 1) simplification and streamlining of procedures to facilitate access to finance; 2) participation of small and mediumsized enterprises, a decisive instrument for development and employment; (3) innovation for a competitive production system that meets the challenges of the market; 4) risk financing mechanism, which has so far produced very positive results. finally, i would like to point out that only a concrete commitment to research policies can consolidate the knowledge-education-research triangle in europe, on which the future of cohesion policy is based.
mr president, research and innovation play a central role in the development and competitiveness of the european union and are crucial to achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the seventh framework programme is the main instrument for financing research in europe, as the report voted today shows, but there are still many difficulties due to the excessive administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. the european parliament, in its resolution of 11 november 2010, requested the european commission to introduce measures to simplify the procedures, administration and finances in the current management of the seventh framework programme, which have not yet been implemented. i would ask the commission to take parliament's comments into account and to identify solutions which will facilitate access for smes to the seventh and eighth research programmes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the rating agencies have now acquired enormous and uncontrollable power. their initial function was to provide valuable information to investors, but they have evolved over time into supreme and uncontrollable judges of the international financial markets. i do not think it is acceptable that companies, and even european states, should be judged by three large american companies, whose valuations have not always been correct but have sometimes led to glaring errors, as in the case of lehman brothers. i hope that the new european authority will be able to act in the best possible way and that it will be given real powers of intervention, including sanctions, if necessary. i also think it is appropriate to introduce the principle of civil liability in cases of gross negligence. we need more competition in this sector and we must break the historical oligopoly and try to bring in new, independent and possibly european players, who are aware of the economic situation and reality of our continent, which is completely different from the us logic. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, the external dimension of social policy covers all the activities and initiatives of the european union aimed at promoting social and labour standards in third countries. although both the lisbon treaty and the european union 2020 strategy place unprecedented importance on social policy, competitiveness issues and economic factors continue to override social issues. but it is becoming increasingly clear that we must no longer focus strictly on markets but on people in general, that is to say, on their protection and on workers' rights and labour law. the european union must have as its long-term objective the ability to guarantee men and women the opportunity to obtain decent and productive work, in conditions of freedom, equality, security and dignity! it is therefore necessary that in future the european parliament and the international and european trade unions should join forces to incorporate their positive and urgent recommendations into the initiative voted on here today.
mr president, 2011 is a strategic moment to build on the experience gained during the four years of application of the regulation establishing a financing and development cooperation instrument. since its entry into force, the main problem that has emerged seems to be the difficulty of understanding or accepting the specific role played by development cooperation in the context of the european union's external action. it must therefore be made clear that development cooperation is the political dimension of the european union's external action, together with humanitarian aid, which was not designed to meet european interests but to defend the interests of the most vulnerable and marginalized people on the planet! with today's vote we are going to stress the need for a separate financing instrument for cooperation and development, intended exclusively for developing countries and specifically aimed at achieving the objectives set out in article 208 of the treaty. in particular, we ask - and i conclude, mr president - that decisions on the general objectives, the priority areas, the expected results and the allocation of funds in accordance with article 290 of the treaty be taken by means of the delegated act procedure.
mr president, in a highly globalised economy such as the present one, the opportunity and ability to study and work in an international environment is an essential condition for professional success. the key factors identified in the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth require, as regards vocational education and training, to be translated into concrete measures at the level of the european union and the member states. the forecasts suggest that the growth in skills needs will continue to increase: industrial and technological developments are creating a greater need for workers with medium and high skills, but at the expense of less skilled people. rapid action is therefore needed, particularly in the case of young people: the continuing rise in youth unemployment is one of the most important challenges facing europe! to achieve these objectives, we believe it is essential that vocational education and training should remain a strong, long-term, political and common priority, the implementation of which will require the participation and commitment of all the actors concerned, the european institutions, but also local and regional actors.
mr president, it is very significant that with this resolution the european parliament is sending a strong signal to both the member states and the younger generations, calling for greater commitment to european cooperation in education, vocational training and higher education, in support of the europe 2020 strategy. we know that early unemployment has long-lasting effects on poverty and social exclusion, such as the prolonged precariousness in which 40% of young europeans live. a mix of training policies and a new wave of incentives for enterprises that employ young people and women on a permanent basis must be given a strong impetus. the adaptation of training skills to the skills needed also to those of citizenship to the new sustainable and intelligent development goals, as well as to the policies for the transition from training to work, is fundamental, including by accelerating the recognition of professional qualifications, qualifications and training credits. the member states which, like my own, cut resources to the education and research systems in times of crisis must know that they are working against young people and against the future of europe.
mr president, the report by mr garriga polledo is a very important piece of legislation which will help to define a new financial framework for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe. we need a budget adapted to the new challenges and a strong and innovative response to meet the new needs, with research and innovation for small and mediumsized enterprises, development and employment as the first objective; the second objective is the reform of the cap to promote and support the competitiveness of agriculture in europe. but the future of cohesion policy deserves special attention, as i consider it a very important instrument of financial support for investment in economic growth and, above all, in the creation of new jobs. i would like to stress one point which is particularly important to me in this connection: the establishment of a new intermediate category. i believe that the creation of this new category cannot be achieved by taking resources away from the existing categories, which are a necessary condition for promoting a balanced, harmonious and sustainable development of our communities.
mr president, my vote in favour of the garriga report on the next financial perspective of the union is based on the conviction that, at a time of the greatest crisis in the so-called european spirit, it is crucial to insist and win over the need to give the union credible instruments, starting with an adequate financial allocation. the request for an additional 5% for the next budget is therefore a right and necessary request, perhaps not sufficient, but indispensable in order to answer the big questions before us: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: without adequate resources, none of these problems will be sufficiently addressed, starting with the introduction of the intermediate category in cohesion policy, which makes sense only if it does not cause damage to the other existing categories. that is why i voted in favour of it and i hope that the commission and the council will follow the report's recommendations.
mr president, i am speaking to express my satisfaction but also to give reasons for voting in favour of the garriga report, which in some ways outlines serious and effective prospects for strengthening cohesion policy. we have expressed our concern by voting for the amendment to the directive on the introduction of an intermediate category in cohesion policies for those european areas which account for less than 90% to 75% of gross domestic product. we are very concerned, not because we do not think that attention should be directed towards cohesion policy, but because we believe that if there are no additional resources, this extension risks depriving, reducing resources for those areas included in objective 1, the 'convergence' objective, which are in great need of the attention and support of the european union. so, satisfaction with the report, satisfaction with the work done, some concern with a focus we would have had on a policy that could have confirmed the so-called 'facing out' as we are used to seeing it.
in writing. - i voted against the full application of the schengen provisions to romania and bulgaria. despite the overall positive assessment of the progress made by the two states in the field of security, the report itself admits that numerous technical and administrative deficiencies have been identified within the bodies responsible for ensuring the security of the borders of these two states, and in particular in the bodies responsible for the control and surveillance of maritime and land borders. secondly, the report admits that if the two states were included in the schengen area, their geographical location close to the turkish border would offer two new routes to illegal migration flows currently directed only to greece, which for now remains the only schengen state on the balkan peninsula. the accession of romania and bulgaria would thus considerably widen the eu's south-eastern 'achilles heel', tripling the pressure it is still under. the draft resolution is therefore in direct contradiction with the security needs of the citizen, which the lega nord has always placed at the heart of its political line, and i cannot support it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr coelho's report on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis in 2007 through their accession to the european union. article 4 (2) of the act of accession provides that verification of compliance by the new member states with the conditions necessary for the application of the schengen acquis is an essential requirement for the council to decide to abolish internal border controls with those states. the evaluations carried out show that both romania and bulgaria have demonstrated that they are sufficiently prepared to implement all the provisions of the schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner. i therefore share the rapporteur's call. i think, however, that we must not forget that the area in question is one of the most sensitive of the eu's external borders in terms of illegal migration. this makes it necessary to adopt some additional measures because, as is well known, the abolition of internal border controls requires a high level of mutual trust between member states and the existence of effective external border controls, as the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and efficiency with which each member state carries out controls at its external borders.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i consider the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen acquis to be a very good step forward in the area of free movement of european citizens within the union, which is why i voted in favour of the application of the provisions in this area. i also believe that although both countries have committed themselves to the free movement of their citizens in europe, they must still continue to bring their controls and regulations up to european standards, given the sensitivity of europe's external borders in the balkan area.
in writing. − the balkan area is one of the most sensitive areas of the eu's external borders in terms of illegal migration. this is a far-reaching phenomenon which affects the daily lives of many of our citizens and increases their insecurity. before any entry into the schengen area of bulgaria and romania can be considered, special and detailed plans to contain migratory pressures must be prepared. the improvement of external border controls must also be accompanied by a fight against corruption in local authorities. for these reasons and to protect our citizens better against illegal immigration, i voted against this measure.
in writing. - article 4 (2) of the act of accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen acquis states that the essential condition for abolishing internal border controls with these countries is verification of compliance with the schengen requirements themselves. since both romania and bulgaria have demonstrated that they are sufficiently prepared to implement all the provisions of the acquis in a satisfactory manner, both member states should be fully integrated into the area. i would stress, however, the importance for internal security of strict controls at the external borders. as bulgaria is in a sensitive area in terms of illegal migration, it needs to take additional measures to respond to any increase in migratory pressure at its borders.
in writing. − the bulgaria-turkey-greece area is one of the most sensitive areas of the eu's external borders in terms of illegal migration. i disagree with the rapporteur because the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area cannot be achieved in the short term, as there are shortcomings in the areas of instruments, the implementation of border controls, staff training and the obligation to exchange data.
in writing. - while expressing some doubts about the excessive length of the text (which falls within the europe 2020 strategy), i consider the objectives of the resolution broadly compatible and therefore voted in favour of mr coelho's text on verifying compliance with the conditions for the application of the schengen acquis as an essential requirement for the abolition of internal border controls with bulgaria and romania.
in writing. - we are witnessing radical changes in the international order in recent months, changes which can no longer see the european union as a mere spectator. i believe that the european union should take inspiration from this and take a really active role in dealing with both the existing and the emerging world powers, and once and for all shed the label of 'political dwarf' in international politics. in this sense i support the need, expressed in mr lambsdorff's proposal, for the member states to make an effort to secure a permanent seat for the european union in the discussions on the reform of the security council. strengthening the role of the european union in the united nations will ensure that the eu plays a leading role as a regional and global actor, otherwise we will continue to face the continuing lack of coordination of member states' interests on the international stage.
in writing. − i strongly supported the main thrust of this report. it calls for an enhanced role for the eu in the un system taking into account the institutional changes brought by the lisbon treaty. today’s vote comes after a relevant success for the eu in the un: the adoption of a set of modalities granting the eu delegation in the un general assembly the right to make interventions, as well as the right of reply and the ability to present oral proposals and amendments. these improvement reflect a clear reality: the eu and its member states are the biggest financial contributors to the un system, with eu funds amounting to 38% of the un regular budget, more than two fifths of un peacekeeping operations and close to half of the contributions to the un funds and programmes. moreover, the eu, in spite of all its limitations, is a major global actor whose weight must be properly recognised at every level.
in writing. - i support this proposal for a parliament recommendation to the council on the forthcoming session of the united nations general assembly. the proposal underlines that the european union and the united nations share a common commitment to promoting democracy, respect for human rights and peace in the international community. the proposal argues that further enlargement of the un security council to include the eu is a key factor in the effective pursuit of the above objectives. the proposal rejects germany's request to occupy the eu's new potential seat at the un permanently, and welcomes italy's proposal to allow all member states to rotate the seat in order to protect the principle of equal dignity between member states. the german request was seen as an attempt to impose the political authority of germany and the anglo-french-german axis inside and outside the eu, but the adoption of the italian position by the present proposal confirms that the eventual enlargement of the security council would also ensure that italy would have the opportunity to make its voice heard on crucial issues of the international order outside the eu. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this document sets out the european union's priorities to be presented to the united nations general assembly. the key point that has been under discussion for some time is the discussion on the reform of the security council. the proposal for a seat for the european union and perhaps a rotating one between the member states seems to be a very good one. the report is therefore supported.
in writing. − the current shift in the international order is spurring the eu to engage more actively with world and emerging powers in order to play a proactive role in building a un that can actually contribute to global solutions: the european union is committed to peace, security, democracy and an international order based on the rule of law. an essential starting point for tackling climate change and environmental degradation, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, poverty reduction and development for all, the consequences of demographic change, migration, international organised crime. thanks to the treaty of lisbon, we now have new permanent structures for external representation. this allows us to assume an international role commensurate with our pre-eminent economic status, acting as a global actor, able to share responsibility for world security. it is up to us to identify clearly our interests and strategic objectives in order to be able to act effectively. the eu is the world's largest provider of development aid, and is an important partner of the un in crisis and post-crisis situations; we therefore believe that effective multilateralism must be pursued as the union's main strategic interest in order to strengthen its coherence and visibility on the international scene.
in writing. - with regard to the 66th session of the united nations general assembly, i support the position that the european parliament should urge the council to play a leading role in promoting the millennium development goals. a debate needs to be launched on how to support the international community's commitment to sustainable development and poverty eradication, and this effort needs to continue beyond 2015. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − despite a number of negative factors, such as the economic crisis, the persistent gap with the us and increasing competition from emerging economies, fp7 has proved capable of adding value to european research and development. fp7 offers the european union the opportunity to match its research policy with its economic and social ambitions, in particular by consolidating the european research area. i share the objectives of the mid-term review in mr audy's report, in particular the simplification of administrative procedures, the participation of smes through the cooperation programme, innovation and the intensification of the risk-sharing financing mechanism. these measures will allow the europeanisation of research in the context of the negotiation of the financial perspective from 2014 onwards.
in writing. − in march 2000, the european council set the union an ambitious target of: to become, in 2010, 'the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world'. the central role of research has been recognised in this strategy. i believe that examining the review of the 7th framework programme for research and technological development is an opportunity to strengthen the valuable link between knowledge, education and research. over the years, fp7 has become one of the world's leading research support programmes, the main instrument of eu research policy and an opportunity for the union to match its research policy with its economic and social ambitions by consolidating the european research area. in particular, i believe that there are two main aspects on which this review should focus: overcome the difficulties associated with the burden and complexity of administrative procedures, which result in researchers giving up european funding in favour of national funding. moreover, despite the progress made in recent years, the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the framework programme should be further strengthened in order to develop the knowledge that will enable them to improve their competitiveness.
in writing. - the report by mr audy on the mid-term report on the eu's seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities certainly has some points of agreement, such as the view that the programme has had a low success rate, especially in relation to smes, or the request for a reduction in grant grant delivery times. however, i abstained because the own-initiative report contained a point which i considered particularly weak and which prevented me from voting in favour. in particular, i do not support the rapporteur's call for increased funding for the erc, including by making it an independent legal entity with decision-making powers directly responsible for its scientific strategy and administrative management.
in writing. - the unanimous vote in committee on this important report and today's vote once again demonstrate that parliament can take a strong and clear position on vital issues for citizens and businesses. i think that the report clearly highlights the critical points of the seventh framework programme and makes some good proposals to ensure that the funds that remain to be allocated can really be used to increase competitiveness and excellence in the european market. in my view, simplifying administrative procedures and bureaucratic burdens remains the most important challenge if we are to make it possible for our enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, to access finance. through these funds, we need to improve system capacity, by improving public-private partnerships, by rewarding clusters between regions and by providing for strong coordination between cohesion funds and those directed at research and innovation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (fp7) is the largest instrument of support for research worldwide and is the main instrument of eu research policy. the measures taken so far to develop knowledge in a wide variety of fields demonstrate the ever-greater need to move towards the dissemination of innovations and their implementation in the daily lives of each of us. it is precisely the proximity of this tool to everyday human activities that has made me favourable to the report by my colleague audy, with the hope that future innovation policies will make the best use of synergies across the entire r & d value chain. at present, the 7th framework programme, which is mainly focused on research and technological development, is the only instrument to achieve the objectives set out in the 'innovation union' and to accelerate europe's transformation into a knowledge-based society. thinking about the future of innovation means creating jobs, harnessing the capital of research and translating it into practical applications in real life and exploiting the potential of human resources, all of which are factors that must be included in the next framework programme.
in writing. − the 7th framework programme for research and technological development has become over the years one of the most important support programmes in the world and is the main instrument of the european union's research policy. following the failure of the so-called 'lisbon strategy' which envisaged the eu as the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, it was decided to examine whether the revision of fp7 is an opportunity to consolidate the golden triangle: the european union is a global player in the field of education. we believe that fp7 is an opportunity for the eu to match its research policy with its economic and social ambitions, in particular by consolidating the european research area (era). it is also necessary to territorialise research and development policies and for the union to adopt an ambitious european defence technology research plan, strengthening the industrial and technological base of the sector and improving the effectiveness of public military spending. finally, we agree with the committee on budgets that the design and implementation of all the fpis must be based on the principles of simplicity, stability, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust, strengthening the links between european research institutes and industry.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr audy's report because in order to achieve and align with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the seventh framework programme needs a complete overhaul. the need for a review of priorities was given by a negative mid-term evaluation; i therefore agree with the reformulation of the main objectives, stressing the need for a more effective research policy which eliminates the burdens of administrative procedures and provides for greater participation of smes, innovation and integration of funding. these changes are intended to ensure the success of projects under the second phase of the seventh framework programme.
in writing. − a review of fp7 is needed to further align the fp7 programme with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. to make european research policy more competitive and to meet its economic and social ambitions, fp7 needs to be adapted to four major objectives: promote the simplification of the research framework programmes by removing the burden of administrative procedures; improving the participation of smes; reinforce the innovation dimension; pursue and strengthen the risk-sharing financing mechanism. the importance of collaboration between academia, public research bodies and the 'industrial sector' should also be emphasised. we need to pay more attention to proposals for research collaborations between the public and industrial sectors, facilitate collaboration between networks of smes, universities and public research bodies, and include among the main parameters in the selection of fp7 projects the assessment of possible market impact, technology transfer and commercial exploitation of research results. for these reasons, and in order to make the eu more competitive in research, without having to wait for fp8, i am voting in favour of a revision of fp7.
in writing. − research is an essential element of the world of knowledge and an activity designed to strengthen the growth and employment of the european union in a globalised economy. the seventh framework programme for research is a good opportunity for the european union to develop research policy while consolidating the european research area (era). through this programme, europe aims to meet the research and knowledge needs of industry and more generally of european policies. the european parliament, by adopting today's report, underlines the results achieved by the research programme in its first four years. to achieve more and better results in the future, administrative simplification, encouraging sme participation, supporting innovation and adopting risk-sharing financing mechanisms will be necessary. the eu and its member states are also invited to adopt an ambitious research plan with the aim of consolidating the european defence industry.
in writing. - relations with canada have long been mutually beneficial, and from a commercial point of view they are a relationship of mutual interest and good cooperation. despite being an advanced country, where there is little doubt that social rights and the most advanced environmental standards are being respected, the commission, even before parliament, has laid the basis for negotiations with its canadian counterpart on many specific points and issues which we must be satisfied with. my vote is in favour of a resolution on a chapter of the european trade policy agenda which should be taken as a model when dealing with countries such as india, china and pakistan, which certainly do not guarantee fair competition like canada, let alone respect for social rights and environmental standards. when we go to negotiate with these countries, we should remember how precise and punctual we have been with very civilised realities like canada and adopt the same linear and open conduct in defence of our interests.
in writing. − trade relations between the european union and canada can go well beyond the commitments made in the world trade organization, provided that they are based on a balanced agreement, the guarantee of genuine reciprocal market access and improved protection of trademarks, patents and geographical indications. we believe that new investments are needed which respect the environment and promote good working conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we believe that the council must obtain parliament's consent before signing any new international trade agreement and that our institution must be informed at all stages of the procedure in order to ensure greater democratic control of the procedure. only then can there be greater growth in trade and investment between the european union and canada.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr klinz's draft report on credit rating agencies because i believe that the text contains many positive elements and points. in particular, i agree with the desire to improve the transparency, integrity, accountability, independence and reliability of these agencies. i also share the rapporteur's view that a european credit rating agency should be set up, independent of the governments and institutions, and that oligopoly is a problem for the sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it clearly and objectively expresses the situation regarding credit rating agencies. i too believe that they play a necessary and very useful role in summarizing and simplifying the flow of information on financial markets, both in terms of the solvency and reliability of debt issuers and in terms of individual financial instruments. however, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, the business model risks diverting attention from investor protection to that of the debt issuer, if appropriate corrective measures are not taken. i do not think that the competitive situation can improve, as the proliferation of agencies could undermine the credibility of the rating; i think that greater responsibility can be translated into greater objectivity and more rigorous work, not to protect the interests of a few, but to reduce information asymmetries, that is to say, the functioning of the markets and therefore the general interest.
in writing. the european parliament takes a further step towards greater transparency in financial markets by endorsing the klinz report, which calls for effective regulation of credit rating agencies. it is important to overcome the current problems in the sector: the lack of competition, the excessive regulatory reliance on ratings, and the unreliability of ratings. in this connection, the european parliament's request to the commission to consider the establishment of an independent european agency which could also be responsible for the valuation of sovereign debts is significant. in the reform work currently under way, which will be completed in the autumn, it will be of great importance to review the role of the agencies in the valuation of sovereign debts, since often the irresponsible behaviour of the latter has been the first cause of speculation, ultimately harming european taxpayers above all.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution adopted today contains a number of measures to reduce the current dependence on very few rating agencies. these measures include increased and timely use of the internal credit rating, in particular by large financial institutions with the capacity to carry out their own risk assessments, but also increased competition. it is certainly a theme which has seen us, in the preparatory stages, somewhat disaggregated but which in the final positions gathers a lot of agreement. this sharing also goes into the transparency issue as i am in favour of all registered credit rating agencies conducting an annual review to assess their own credit rating performance and then passing this information on to the supervisory authorities.
in writing. the recent financial crisis has highlighted three main problems affecting credit rating agencies: lack of competition, due to the lack of relevance of credit rating agencies in global capital markets and the inability to compete, especially in regulatory standards; the commission is also proposing to support the establishment of a european network of credit rating agencies. the commission is also proposing to support the establishment of a european network of credit rating agencies. in this connection, we support the importance of better information to investors and of allowing market participants to invest in derivative financial instruments only if they can demonstrate that they are able to understand and assess the credit risk involved in the product. finally, we agree on the possibility of establishing a fully independent and non-public european credit rating foundation (ecraf).
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the work of credit rating agencies is important as a guarantee of reliability and stability, so it is necessary to establish rules and criteria for their ratings and their impartiality. i voted in favour of mr klinz's text because i believe it is essential that the european union should have adequate rules to manage the impact of ratings on the whole financial and economic system. despite the regulatory vacuum in this area and the possibility for these agencies to influence the economies of the member states to the point of causing them to collapse, this report is nevertheless the first step towards new regulation of credit rating agencies, in view of the recent approval by the commission of the new cra regulation.
in writing. − this measure is a final expression of support for improving the activities of rating agencies by increasing their transparency, integrity, accountability, independence and reliability. while recognising the role of agencies in providing information and stimulating liquidity in markets, it is now clear that financial operators have relied too much on their judgment and that their actions have contributed to the financial crisis. there is an excessive reliance on external credit rating agencies and an oligopoly in the sector. i therefore support the establishment of an independent european credit rating foundation responsible for rating in the public, corporate and structured finance sectors.
in writing. - i congratulate mr klinz on his excellent work. i would urge the rating agencies to be more clear about how they calibrate their sovereign ratings, asking the industry to explain their methodologies and why their ratings differ from the forecasts of the major international financial institutions. another controversial point concerns the structure to be proposed to counterbalance at european level the three major rating agencies, which are considered to be too dominant on the european scene. i therefore call on the commission to undertake a detailed assessment for a fully independent credit rating agency with initial funding to cover at most the first five years of operation. finally, it is essential to examine how credit rating agencies can be held liable for the information they provide, and i ask the commission to identify ways in which credit rating agencies can be held liable under the civil law of the member states.
in writing. the main objective of the resolution adopted today is to eliminate the dependence on external credit assessments from the whole system as far as possible and within a realistic timeframe. the role of external evaluations as a determining criterion is particularly relevant when it comes to downgrading an investment category to a lower one. in a well-functioning and competitive market, the reputation of an agency should be sufficient to guarantee the quality of the ratings issued. however, since credit rating agencies operate in an oligopoly during this period, they benefit from a market which is 'guaranteed' by its very nature.
in writing. − the financial crisis of recent years has highlighted the three main problems affecting the sector: lack of competition, over-reliance on the regulatory framework for external ratings and lack of agency accountability for the credit ratings they issue. i voted in favour of mr klinz's report because i think it is a valid and interesting idea to set up a completely independent and non-public european credit rating agency.
in writing. − the report on the external dimension of social policy relates to a priority for the eu social policies. it calls for the strengthening of the core labour standards embedded in the ilo conventions, including freedom of association and collective bargaining, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, and the abolition of child labour. i voted in favour of this report because it also calls for a change in governance, globally and in the eu, in order to better implement workers’ rights and working conditions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the external dimension of social policy includes the union's initiatives aimed at promoting social and labour standards in third countries. the european union, by adopting labour standards, promotes the possibility for citizens to obtain work in conditions of freedom, equality, safety and dignity. in the current phase of globalisation of the world economy, international labour standards represent the basis on which to build a country's social and economic growth. china, india and other emerging economies are increasingly important players in the foreign investment landscape. however, this phenomenon is associated with the risk that these countries and, in particular, their enterprises, export labour standards that are less stringent than those within the union. i therefore believe that the european union must take a cautious approach to third countries which wish to conclude trade agreements with it. european smes are the main actors in the implementation of social standards. i believe it is of the utmost importance to have a clear and unambiguous definition of corporate social responsibility which prevents the current diversity of interpretation while at the same time laying down the procedures for ensuring that it is respected.
in writing. - i would like to support the report by mr falbr, which recognises the strategic importance of corporate social responsibility as a motivating tool for stimulating growth and stresses that the approach to this subject should be voluntary. i also fully share the rapporteur's critical approach, which disapproves of the european union's hypocritical behaviour in promoting a social model that is sensitive to social rights on the one hand and concluding trade agreements with countries that do not respect or provide for protection for workers on the other.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the fundamental objectives of the eu is to combine human and social development with economic development. their balanced relationship allows people to do their jobs with adequate remuneration that respects human dignity and professional quality, and allows entrepreneurs to pursue the development of their businesses in accordance with market logic, tempered by the human dimension in which they must develop. this perspective, which some also call the social market economy, is actually a new paradigm that goes beyond the welfare economy and reorients itself to the centrality of the human person. this reorientation must include consistent support for social policy, including the promotion of social standards and the associated responsibility of enterprises. this approach and vision cannot and must not only be applied to the internal eu environment, but also to external action, at all times, in particular when agreements are being negotiated. respect for the rules of the ilo, the principles of the european social charter and the social dialogue are just some of the issues that can be developed on such occasions. i think the report we have adopted is a good support for these objectives.
in writing. - the desire for new things, which has been shaking the states for some time, would eventually result in the desire for change moving from the political order to the adjacent sector of the economy. i quote the beloved pope john paul ii, who, taking up the themes dealt with by his predecessor leo xiii in the encyclical rerum novarum, in the encyclical centesimus annus, analyses and intervenes on the social 'question', which in 1991 as today must find a solution in christian doctrine, that is, in the recognition of the dignity of the human being, of the worker, without any distinction. i voted in favour of mr falbr's report because it stresses the importance of safeguarding human rights and the fact that the european social model is an important starting point for the union's external relations. social responsibility must work in this direction and the european union, through its parliament, must recover and strengthen these principles in all its actions and especially towards third countries whose citizens do not enjoy fundamental rights. as vice-president of the femm commission, i cannot fail to stress the importance for all of us to cooperate also externally to eliminate gender discrimination and gender-based violence, so as to recover the social dignity of women and their active contribution to the growth of the local economy as a supranational.
in writing. − the external dimension of eu social policy aims to promote social standards in third countries, but competitiveness issues and economic factors continue to override social and labour issues. we have eight ilo conventions so far, ratified by all the eu member states. these lead to the production of a common base of international standards for all member states. it is still necessary to focus on people in general as human beings, and this is possible with the protection of workers' rights and the right to work. the ilo plays a key role at international level in the construction, promotion and effective implementation of these standards. companies must also contribute to sustainable development in order to promote quality conditions for workers, but the difference between developed and developing countries persists in their social protection systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. - a company can be socially responsible if it adopts a solid model that takes into account not only the economic, but also the social and environmental impacts of its actions. today, people are not only asking how companies achieve their economic results, but also who they hire and how they treat their staff. a responsible company is an active and aware of the social reality in which it operates and which makes the relationship with all the parties involved in its activity the source of greatest wealth. the report adopted today commits the european union to playing a leading role in social policy worldwide by promoting global objectives, and underlines the importance of the role of the european parliament under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i am in favour of the own-initiative report as it deals with the promotion of corporate social responsibility as a voluntary motivational tool to stimulate company growth. european enterprises are the engine of the eu economy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am also in favour of the creation of socially responsible enterprises in which the key principles are the social protection of workers, consumer protection and compliance with transparency laws.
in writing. the figures in mrs kirsch's report are alarming: the youth unemployment rate is now 21%, twice the eu average. the proposal contains useful insights and certainly deserves to be viewed in a positive light, but i am convinced that in order to seriously address the challenges posed by the copenhagen process and the eu 2020 strategy, we should make appropriate financial resources available, for example through the structural funds and in particular through the european social fund (esf). i also regret that there is no comprehensive, all-embracing approach supported by all the member states. without a coordinated initiative that involves the areas of vocational training, vocational qualifications, lifelong learning and apprenticeships in the labour market at the same time, i do not see how we can ensure the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy 'an agenda for new skills and new jobs'.
in writing. − in today's globalised economy, the opportunity and ability to study and work in an international environment is a prerequisite for the professional success of european citizens. despite the dramatic consequences of the economic crisis on the european labour market, industrial and technological developments are creating a greater need for workers with medium to high skills. the key drivers identified in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth require, as regards education and training, to be translated into concrete measures at european union level. to achieve these objectives, it is essential that vocational education and training should be a common long-term political priority, the implementation of which requires the participation and commitment of all the actors involved at both european and regional level. i would stress here that rapid action is needed, especially for young people: the growth of youth unemployment is one of the most urgent challenges facing europe. the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy to bring the school drop-out rate below 10% per year and to ensure that 40% of young people obtain a high school diploma must be addressed by concrete and effective measures.
in writing. - i did not intend to support mrs hirsch's own-initiative report, not so much because of the declarations of principle which are shared when it stresses the importance of bringing the worlds of work and academic training closer together. but once again, there is a lack of a concrete, proactive approach to the issue that transcends sterile considerations and prospects for concrete solutions to solve a social emergency that cannot be solved by rhetoric.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, as the report says, young people are the real resource of our future and we have a duty to ensure that they all have access to education and vocational training. the economic crisis that has hit europe and beyond in recent years has hit young people the hardest. unemployment has risen sharply in this age group, and those who get a job have to settle for fixed-term solutions and underpayment. we must act quickly and effectively to restore dignity to these young people who want to work and above all to play a role in a world where they are hardly welcome. these objectives have also been included in the europe 2020 strategy, which states that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must be pursued. in general, the report by mr hirsch is a good starting point for what must be one of the political priorities of this parliament and of the european union as a whole.
in writing. − in order to encourage european cooperation in support of the europe 2020 strategy, there are three points highlighted in this report on which i wish to express my broadest agreement. firstly, i strongly support the need to improve the dialogue between the world of work and the education system by extending the offer of traineeships in companies and enterprises, so as to enable the student to participate actively in entrepreneurial life and to increase the collaboration between enterprises and educational institutions in vocational training. i also think it is desirable to intensify the integration of education systems at international level in order to achieve full recognition of qualifications on the one hand and the promotion of cross-border mobility projects on the other. finally, i fully agree with our suggestion as a parliament to the commission on the adjustment of the european social fund, the erasmus fund and the lifelong learning programme so that resources can be allocated both to specific projects in the field of vocational education and training and to the fight against youth unemployment and gender discrimination, involving more women in these projects.
in writing. - this report sets another benchmark for the european strategy on youth policies. it is right to support the internationalisation of studies at the same time as the flexibility of young workers in the workplace. in an increasingly competitive labour market, young europeans must be given the opportunity to compete with their peers from all over the world. the figures on youth unemployment cannot leave us indifferent. welcome to this report which highlights the importance of the objectives of the 2020 strategy: combat youth unemployment through efficient and effective measures such as bringing the school drop-out rate below 10% and ensuring that at least 40% of young people have a high school diploma. but this should not be an end but a starting point: the creation of channels between universities and businesses and the relaunch of compulsory traineeships/traineeships programmes funded by public or private bodies must be the next priorities. we don't have much time and we have to act now. otherwise the legacy we leave to future generations will be very heavy.
in writing. − the report on european cooperation in vocational education and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy satisfactorily identifies the objectives we set ourselves long ago with the 2020 strategy itself. it is now more than ever essential that there be a constant dialogue between the world of vocational training and education and the world of work. the main challenge is this: the commission's proposal is to ensure that the world of work meets the needs of new workers in an increasingly consistent way.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on european cooperation in vocational education and training, as this subject is an important part of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure economic development. cooperation to improve education and vocational training means lowering youth unemployment, providing workers with knowledge tools and providing expanded and simplified funding opportunities. the current socioeconomic environment requires the ability to work in international environments and therefore the learning opportunities must be extended, also in view of the role of enterprises which increasingly need competent staff with practical training experiences who can work effectively from the outset.
in writing. − in an increasingly globalised world, it is important for young people to be able to further their education and training through mobility. the labour market is increasingly demanding people who are more mobile, flexible and have international experience. despite the economic crisis, the european labour market is expected to grow gradually over the next decade. this is why the eu has implemented the europe 2020 strategy to boost interest in vocational education and training. we must increasingly seek to remove barriers, increase transparency, and increase comparison within and between education systems. education should pay more attention to the needs of the labour market, encourage a method for learning outcomes and raise its standards of quality in order to achieve greater professionalism. finally, efforts should be made to encourage creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship so that young people and workers in europe can develop their skills to meet the demands of the economy. in order to achieve these objectives and to ensure that vocational education and training remains a strong and long-term common political priority, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the report 'european cooperation in vocational education and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy' was voted on today at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. despite the dramatic impact of the economic crisis on the european labour market, employment in europe is expected to grow gradually over the next decade. the factors identified in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth require, as regards education and vocational training, to be translated into concrete measures at the level of the european union and the member states. it is essential that vocational education and training continue to be a high priority for the european union institutions and local and regional actors in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. in her report, mrs hirsch welcomes the commission's measures to remove barriers, increase transparency and exchange within and between education systems, and stresses the importance of education being close to the labour market by encouraging the stimulation of creativity and innovation.
in writing. − in an increasingly globalised economy, the opportunity and ability to study and work in an international environment is an important condition for professional success. businesses are increasingly calling for a more practical and solution-oriented vocational education and training. what matters are the skills and competences which, at the end of a vocational education or training path, can be brought into the work environment. the resolution adopted today is a first step towards ensuring that european workers have the opportunity to adapt to the demands of the economy. citizens must be given the opportunity to develop and complement their skills. vocational training should not only help workers to find better jobs, but also offer them the opportunity to create the jobs of the future and thus actively contribute to an innovative economy.
in writing. − the purpose of this report on the establishment of a financial instrument for development cooperation is to set at an early stage a parliament position on this topic. this position should be based on the lessons drawn from its scrutiny of the implementation of our development cooperation. i appreciated the method followed by the rapporteur in evaluating the outcome and modalities of the eu cooperation for development. the rapporteur clearly states that, in spite of the constructiveness of the dialogue with the commission, the commission itself did not change its behaviour in development matters as parliament recommended. parliament’s position was only sporadically reflected in the draft implementing measures submitted by the commission to the dci management committee. this is partially understandable. the main partner of the rapporteur was dg relex, whose main mandate is the promotion of eu interests in the rest of the world. but development cooperation is the one policy area of external action (besides humanitarian aid) which is not designed to serve eu interests, but to defend the interests of the most vulnerable populations of this planet. since the position expressed in this report fully reflect this global inspiration, i was glad to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the instrument for financing cooperation with developing countries, territories and regions because of the proposal's own wishes on the management of illegal immigration. in particular, it is argued that immigration-related development funds should not be invested to strengthen border controls and to counter the phenomenon of immigration. this is incompatible with our policy of giving priority to strengthening the frontiers and combating illegal immigration, and would therefore like to see more resources invested in this area. i therefore decided to vote against the motion.
in writing. - the theme of development cooperation is one of the key principles of my work. i think that mr mitchell's excellent report clearly identifies the areas where europe can and must do better. the experience of the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) has been crucial in understanding how the european union should proceed under the future multiannual financial framework. if we want to make the support instruments effective, then we must set up funding which is independent of other measures, and we must reformulate the quotas and the way they are implemented. this revision must be based on a neighbourhood policy which is attentive to the various needs of the poorest countries and no longer solely to european interests. i am firmly convinced that the eu's development policy must be the fruit of the work of parliament and the council, applying the provisions of article 290 tfeu also in this area. these principles have been clearly expressed in this report, and for that reason it deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − over the last few decades, a great many aid projects have been carried out in developing countries by a variety of organisations, both public and private. as the report shows, the poor results achieved so far, the lack of coordination on the common objectives (who) and the lack of clarity on how these objectives should be achieved, make it necessary, in my view, to establish a new financing instrument for development cooperation. but this instrument must be designed intelligently and must be such as to improve the present situation without creating further waste of resources. for this project to be truly effective, action is needed on two fronts: on the one hand, since poverty eradication is the primary objective, new funds, in real terms, must be allocated to this cause, without others being subtracted from previously launched projects; i think it is essential that the european union should make a greater effort in this project. coordination and division of labour must be the guiding principles for programming under the new development tool.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financial instrument for development cooperation (dci) has now been in operation for four years. the commission will shortly present its proposals for the post-2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) and legislative proposals for the financing instruments for external action later this year. the report aims to establish at an early stage parliament's position on a new financial instrument. the report presents the lessons learned by focusing on the ep's experience with the exercise of democratic control over the cdi, a part of the report is devoted to the prospects for the future and finally addresses the geographical and thematic programmes by stressing the need for strict eligibility criteria for budget support, with particular attention to the important role of civil society in the development and application of delegated acts for decisions meeting the criteria of article 290 tfeu. in order to give the ep the opportunity to exercise control over strategic planning on an equal footing with the council, i shall vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the report adopted today aims to define the european parliament's position on the new financing instrument for development cooperation of the european union, based on the experience gained in the context of the controls on the implementation of the dci. unlike parliament, the member states do not seem to pay much attention to checking whether proposals comply with the rules applicable to the jrc. it should therefore be made clear that development cooperation is the political dimension of the european union's external action, which is not designed to meet european interests but to defend the interests of the most vulnerable and marginalised people on the planet, through the eradication of poverty and sustainable human, social and economic development, in other words by defending the right to a decent life for all. parliament clearly recognises the importance of these activities and therefore calls for an instrument to enable the eu to finance these activities through sources other than the jrc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr mitchell. i believe that the european parliament, also in the light of the experience gained following the adoption of the development cooperation instrument with a view to the new instrument after 2013, should be able to defend the specific nature of eu development policy by exercising control over strategic programming on an equal footing with the council. it is also of particular importance that decisions on general objectives, priority areas and the allocation of funds be taken in accordance with article 290 tfeu by means of delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on how to ensure independent impact assessments. the proposal first emphasises the need to take account of the regulatory impact on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in impact assessments and to reduce the regulatory burden on smes. this focus on the needs of smes was key to the positive vote. secondly, the proposal emphasizes another very important aspect, namely the specific nature of national economic realities. in order to protect these, the commission is urged to consult both the individual member states and the officials and spokesmen of the various national evaluation bodies, in order to ensure that individual needs are not subordinated to the community perspective. the proposal also seeks to improve the transparency and efficiency of the union's administrative processes by calling on the commission to be accountable to parliament for its actions. in view of the points raised so far, my vote can only be in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported mrs niebler's report on the guarantee of independent impact assessments. impact assessments are one of the cornerstones of the better regulation policy, which aims to improve and simplify new and existing legislation. they are an appropriate tool for assessing the effects of the adoption of new laws and the simplification and revision of existing laws. i believe, however, that their acknowledged usefulness must always be attributed to the observance of certain essential principles, such as transparency and impartiality. i therefore agree with the rapporteur when she points out that the commission has recently improved its impact assessments, but points out that further improvements are still needed. finally, i welcome the decision to create an autonomous structure for impact assessments in the european parliament, through which the quality of eu legislation can be improved.
in writing. − impact assessments are a key tool in the legislative process, which the european legislator should use more in the future, as they help to understand what the consequences of the various options for action would be. it should not be forgotten, however, that they merely contribute to the technical preparation of the content of a political decision. we believe that the impact assessments used by the european institutions must comply with certain principles. first, they should be carried out in a totally independent and transparent manner; should apply to all categories of legislative proposals, follow a clear methodology, and be constantly updated on the basis of developments in the ongoing legislative procedures. we also believe that the european commission should inform the european parliament in detail in cases where it does not consider it essential to assess the effects of its decisions. finally, we confirm the importance of the creation of an autonomous structure for impact assessments within parliament, with the aim of further improving the quality of the legislative process and creating new synergies.
in writing. - mr president, impact assessments are a crucial technical contribution to the improvement of legislation, as they show the legislator the various consequences of the possibilities of intervention, and are a fundamental instrument in the european legislative process. the draft divides these assessments into four sections: the first considers that the impact assessments used by the european institutions must comply with certain principles and must be carried out in a totally independent and transparent manner; the second concerns the impact assessments of the commission and indicates possible improvements; the third concerns the impact assessments carried out by the european parliament, inviting its committees to make greater use of this tool in order to increase the quality of the legislative process. finally, the fourth request calls for the creation of an independent impact assessment structure in parliament which can be used by all committees, so that greater synergy can be created between them. as stated above, since impact assessments will in no way replace political discourse and democratically legitimized decision-making, but only contribute substantially to the technical preparation of the content of a political decision, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the prevention of pollution from
in writing. - too often, european legislation is complex, difficult to understand and apply. this is why, in the preparation of european legislation, impact assessments can make a decisive contribution to improving the quality of legislation, especially in terms of reducing the time and costs of the legislative process. i support this measure because taking better account of the needs of the member states will make it possible to understand what the consequences (social, environmental, financial, economic) of a legislative act might be. in addition, impact assessments need to be fully independent and transparent and to take place at the earliest stages of legislative development.
in writing. − impact assessments are a key tool in the legislative process. the benefits are clear and it is a key contribution to improving legislation. in any event, an impact assessment cannot in any case replace the democratically legitimated decision-making process of the legislator. the report adopted today underlines parliament's view that the impact assessments used by the european institutions must be carried out in a fully independent and transparent manner, applied to all categories of legislative proposals and drawn up according to a clear methodology. parliament also called for the creation of an autonomous structure to deal with impact assessments within parliament, with the aim of further improving the quality of the legislative process and creating synergies.
in writing. - i am voting against a report which, by proposing an optional legal instrument on contract law, is in fact laying the foundations for a future european civil law, which will take precedence over national civil law. this would mean the end of national legal traditions and of the rules which each state has established for itself in such sensitive matters as civil law and contract law. however, if the objective of introducing an optional instrument is to facilitate trade while taking due account of the needs of consumers and businesses, it is sufficient to recall that the existing regulations at european level can already meet the requirements of the various stakeholders. the real aim of the report, therefore, seems to be the more ambitious one of creating a european civil code, which i cannot agree with.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on her work, for which i gave her a positive vote. this report responds to the needs of consumers and smes, who, unlike other players representing larger economies, have obvious problems accessing the internal market because they face enormous costs. as a direct consequence, both smes and consumers tend to carry out their transactions within the domestic market, which is often much less competitive and therefore does not have access to the cross-border market, which often offers a product at a cost up to 10% lower than the national offer. differences in the law of contracts must be eliminated and the creation of an optional instrument for european contract law by means of a regulation, which would not replace but would be alongside the contract law of the individual states, is an excellent solution which would allow the parties to choose freely the legal instrument most suited to their needs.
in writing. − differences in european contract law end up discouraging businesses from engaging in cross-border trade and preventing them from benefiting from the opportunities and benefits of the internal market. as a result, consumers are also disadvantaged by the limited product range, higher prices and lower quality due to low cross-border competition. in this connection we are proposing to introduce some new features, such as: contracts between undertakings and those between undertakings and consumers governed by an optional instrument that will broaden their choices; the introduction of a monitoring and review mechanism to ensure that the optional instrument responds to market needs and legal and economic developments. the key objectives will be simplicity and immediate use; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, the introduction of a trust mark system would ensure greater protection for consumers themselves. choosing the right prospects for the future in the field of contract law can make an important contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market itself and its full potential not only for businesses but also for consumers.
in writing. − the diversity of contractual rights in the member states creates structural problems which discourage businesses and consumers. the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs wallis is in favour of the creation of an optional instrument for european consumer and business contract law through a generic regulation, which is why i voted in favour of the text. moreover, this would not replace the contract law of the member states but would only support better choice of the contract model between the parties through examples based on general principles, definitions and model rules for both commercial and consumer contracts, without going against the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr wallis. the problems arising from the diversity of contract rights in the member states very often discourage businesses, especially smes, from engaging in cross-border trade, effectively preventing them from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the internal market. the text voted today aims to create an optional instrument for european contract law by means of a regulation: the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should rule on the question of the interpretation of the treaty by the court of justice.
in writing. - mr president, gdp, which was devised in the 1930s, is the best-known measure of macroeconomic activity, used by policy-makers in debates as an indicator of their country's growth. at present, in the light of the increasing interdependence between economic, social and environmental issues, gdp is beginning to show many weaknesses as it does not record important social factors such as welfare, social inclusion, climate change or resource efficiency. therefore, in a context where the correlation between a range of non-market activities and gdp is no longer automatic, it is necessary to develop clear and measurable additional indicators in the medium and long term, which ensure comparability between countries and regions and which can be used to develop projections on future developments and to define targeted policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the importance of agreeing on a systemic approach to setting up a coherent ‘beyond gdp system’ to contribute to improved policy analysis. gdp is an indicator of economic activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy-makers throughout the world. but gdp is only a measure of production. it does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general. therefore it can be misleading. we need to measure quality of life in societies; we need to consider that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, environmental conditions, etc. for these reasons this report deserves to be given the highest consideration. it takes the view that indicators which measure such factors should be assigned a greater role.
in writing. - the gross domestic product, devised in the 1930s and known as the most established unit of measurement of macroeconomic activity, is considered a global indicator of overall social development and progress in general. a number of international initiatives have highlighted the broad consensus among policy makers, economic and environmental experts and civil society on the development of indicators to complement gdp in order to support decision-making with more complete information. gdp is not a reliable basis for policy debate: it measures neither environmental sustainability nor social inclusion. in the political and scientific debate which has been going on for years, the problem, in my view, is rather how to achieve this approach through clearly defined and quantifiable indicators. a number of initiatives have been launched at eu and member state level to address gaps in these areas, but it remains difficult to identify a coherent approach. therefore, while recognising the importance of adopting a clearly defined unit of gdp, i would urge the commission to first present a phased strategy outlining how to apply the new 'not just gdp' approach in the day-to-day work of policy makers.
in writing. the report by mrs rosbach provides a critical analysis of the commission communication 'not just gdp - measuring progress in a changing world'. the commission's objective - to adopt a unit of measurement that goes beyond gdp to take a more comprehensive view of a country's development and progress, including for example environmental sustainability and social inclusion - is important and not controversial, but the rapporteur questions the commission's proposed strategy for achieving it. the suggested initiatives are not integrated into a gradual and pragmatic strategy that indicates how the new 'not just gdp' approach should be used. it's a perspective i share: i therefore voted in favour of mrs rosbach's report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only with the right tools can we get a realistic view of the situation and then do our best to be able to change it if necessary. gdp, or gross domestic product, is a measure designed to indicate the aggregate value added of all economic activities, which are based on money. it is easy to see how a wealth indicator based on outdated parameters, today, in 2011, is anachronistic. i think it is appropriate to introduce new measures of gdp assessment, such as environmental sustainability or social inclusion, in order to obtain from the set of data constituting gdp a more authentic picture of the country or region to which it relates. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. i believe that by introducing clear and definite indicators the work can be done in the best possible way.
in writing. - the economic literature has for years been debating whether or not to continue to use the gdp growth rate as a measure of the progress made by a geographical area over a given period of time. i do not think there is any indicator at present that is as concise and complete. we cannot present to our citizens, who are immersed in their daily problems, a medical record to describe the state of the economy. at the same time, it is not possible to insist on strictly economic measures which are not always able to take account of social phenomena. i therefore agree with the general aim of the report: let's join our efforts with those of the international academic community and try to surpass gdp. there are dozens of examples around the world, from the united nations development programme's human development index, to the gross national happiness of the kingdom of bhutan. priority objectives must be identified and their achievement measured in a rigorous, timely manner and not subject to bias based on vested interests. let us remember that it is not how many watches we have that matters, but how we spend our time.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, indicators are a way of reading a given phenomenon in a synthetic way. simple phenomena can be read through simple indicators, while complex phenomena require complex indicators to read. gdp is a simple indicator, while development is a complex phenomenon. in fact, the economic development of a territory has several profiles that are not contained in gdp, which also photographs a given moment, while other elements of reading are totally omitted, such as investments in intangible infrastructure, including knowledge (people, processes, products, just to name a few), or investments in tangible infrastructure, including communication and transport networks (ict networks, road and rail networks, to name a few). moreover, gdp is not adequate for the identification of the regions assisted by the eu's regional cohesion policy either. it is for these reasons that the european commission's effort to go beyond gdp and create a set of data and indicators that improve the ability to read phenomena and help to better define policies and financial allocations is to be welcomed. the report we have approved seems to me to be moving in that direction.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's aim of going beyond gdp, that is to say of finding another unit of measurement (which, however, would be integrated into it), is rightly criticised in the report by parliament, which stresses that if the commission has not yet defined precisely the transition and the precise indicators, the debate will have to be postponed. the position is therefore in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - gdp, or gross domestic product, is the most widely known macroeconomic unit used in policy analysis and debate around the world to indicate social development. unfortunately, despite its widespread use, there is a growing awareness that the economic and social fabric of europe has changed profoundly. now, in addition to income and wealth information, other environmental indicators affect a country's standard of living and cannot be ignored any further. that is why i support mrs rosbach's report, which sets out new indicators which take account of the broad lines of environmental policy such as energy use, biodiversity, water use and waste generation. the challenge is to complement existing indices with other politically relevant and empirically measurable elements that provide reliable statistics on future developments in countries. in this sense, i believe that by eliminating subjective factors such as personal happiness, which cannot be regarded as indicators, the new text has reached a valid compromise. finally, i hope that both eurostat and the eurobarometer will play a key role in this innovative process. thank you for your attention.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the analysis of the rapporteur in the report voted on today. the gross domestic product no longer seems to be able to meet the growing economic and political needs. i believe that we must identify a possible complementary instrument which can help to improve policy analysis and debate by using clear additional indicators capable of detecting and measuring economic and social progress in the medium and long term. this is certainly not an easy task, given the sensitivity of the matter and the impact that decisions taken in this context can have. the challenge we are about to face is therefore to find reliable indicators that are both theoretically consistent, politically relevant and empirically measurable.
in writing. - gross domestic product is no longer a sufficient and appropriate indicator to measure progress and there is therefore a need to develop more comprehensive indicators that provide a more reliable knowledge base in an increasingly changing world. clearly defined information, data and indicators are often lacking. a number of initiatives have been taken at eu and member state level to address the gaps identified. although it is difficult to identify a method which is at the same time coherent, we believe that a global approach is necessary which takes account of existing measures and which can be applied in political practice. a new tool needs to be developed that can complement gdp, that can be used in practice and that is based on clearly defined indicators and high-quality data. we agree with the rapporteur that a step-by-step strategy is needed, which shows how to apply the new approach in a pragmatic way in day-to-day political work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr rosbach on 'not just gdp - measuring progress in a changing world' because i believe that gdp is no longer sufficient and appropriate to measure progress in a changing world and that more comprehensive indicators are needed, which provide a more reliable knowledge base. it should be remembered that gdp is a measure of production and does not measure, for example, environmental sustainability. other indicators need to be developed to give an idea of the factors affecting a country's standard of living. i am therefore in favour of the creation of new indicators to measure social and economic progress in the medium and long term, for example indicators that take account of climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion. the development of these new indicators also helps to understand and measure the quality of life in societies. the development of a member state or a given region cannot therefore be measured merely by an economic indicator such as gdp, but also by the quality of life, which is determined by factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and climatic and environmental conditions.
in writing. − "not just gdp measuring progress in a changing world". a report which attempts to assess the level of progress of the union through that global indicator of social and economic development which is the gross domestic product. unfortunately, gdp is no longer a reliable basis for policy debate because it cannot measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion on its own. the need for improved data and indicators to complement the criteria for assessing progress is becoming increasingly evident, which is why i voted in favour of a text which seeks to integrate the development of the european union with new social indicators, which seeks a definite unit of measurement that goes beyond gdp and complements it in the context of the decision-making process.
in writing. - mr president, gdp is the most widely used unit of measurement in the world. this is considered a global indicator of overall social development and progress in general, but it does not take into account either the calculation of environmental sustainability or social inclusion. we must try to improve the data and indicators to complement gdp, or it will fail to provide a reliable basis for policy debate. this topic has already been discussed in the past years and in particular in 2007 the european parliament and the commission, together with institutions and associations, organised a conference entitled 'more than gdp'. at that meeting, the commission argued that gdp is not an adequate long-term measurement system, and that economic and social progress are not sufficient to assess issues such as climate change, resource efficiency or personal well-being, and subsequently proposed new indicators to assess progress in achieving social, economic and environmental objectives. for the reasons stated above and in order to develop a set of indicators which are clear and comprehensive but also coherent, relevant and objectively measurable, i am voting in favour of the proposal under consideration.
in writing. - this report proposes the adoption of a clearly defined unit of measurement to complement gdp as an indicator of overall social development. the complementary tool should have a practical use and be based on clearly defined indicators and reliable data. only then can gdp provide a sufficient contribution to the political debate and decision-making process. the commission is therefore invited to present a comprehensive and phased strategy which will illustrate the new approach in a pragmatic way in day-to-day political work.
in writing. − the report on the commission communication of 20 august 2009 'more than gdp - measuring progress in a changing world' highlights the importance of gdp as a global indicator of social development and economic growth. the aim is to adopt a new unit of measurement that is clearly defined and quantifiable on the basis of reliable and truthful data, but the communication to the commission does not indicate the step-by-step strategy for achieving this. i am in favour of the report because i believe it is important to make socioeconomic analyses with appropriate instruments to complement gdp.
in writing. - today i spoke in favour of identifying new parameters which are more representative of a country's progress, and not just its consumption, although i believe more should be done. the report in question has had a long and contentious process, after which it arrived at the plenary with nothing of substance. parliament should have put forward a proposal which took account of factors such as education, health, personal activities and others, but instead it merely stressed the need to set new standards, and asked the commission to set them. gdp is an outdated indicator, based on economic principles which, reducing quality to quantity, do not take into account the meaning of things, individual and collective well-being, underestimate work itself in relation to the object of production and do not consider maintenance, but only the production of new objects.
in writing. the project to implement a european satellite navigation programme is a major challenge and certainly useful for the future of technology in europe, but at present the estimates of expenditure and investment by the community bodies for this project are still unclear and not very transparent. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i therefore abstain on the final vote on the own-initiative report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs ţicău's report because the project in question meets many of the expectations of those who are optimistic about the development of research and technology. egnos and galileo are projects that will produce around eur 60 billion in positive externalities for the eu economy and society, in terms of improved road and air safety, reduced air pollution and pesticide consumption, new job creation and improved public safety, generating very high value for money. it therefore requires the commission to present a clear assessment of all possible technical options and possible costs and benefits in the ante phase, i.e. before a decision is taken on further financial commitments from the eu budget in the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − we believe that the global navigation satellite system (gnss) developed by the european union, consisting of galileo and egnos, is an important step for europe as it guarantees autonomy and independence from other global navigation systems and, secondly, the possibility to participate in the fast-growing high-tech market worldwide. it is very important, however, to ensure continuity of service, as a (temporary) limitation or degradation of gps signals can have enormous effects on the economy and society, without other independent gnss systems. however, to fully exploit the benefits of galileo, full operational capacity needs to be achieved and further investment will be required to do so. the financial picture is far from positive at present. at this point we believe that a broad and comprehensive political debate is needed on the level of ambition desired and the financial resources available. finally, we support the importance of launching a comprehensive analysis aimed at defining more precisely the possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation after 2013, which includes all the commercial aspects as well as the legal, contractual and financial structures of the different models capable of implementing a stable governance model.
in writing. − the galileo system will improve the accuracy and reliability of the us global positioning system (gps) information. this new system will be important in giving the eu autonomy and independence from other global navigation systems and in allowing it to participate in the fast-growing high-tech market worldwide. as you know, the programme is fully funded by the union budget with an allocation of eur 3.4 billion until 2014. it is known that the indirect benefits of the programme are estimated at around €60 billion per year, but the commission has admitted that further investment will be needed to make the system operational. since it is not clear how much the galileo system will cost the taxpayer, i have abstained on this measure, also to reiterate the request to the commission to clarify the future costs of the project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the importance of the galileo project as part of a comprehensive european satellite navigation system. it ensures the union's autonomy and independence from other global navigation systems and allows it to participate in the high-technology market, which is growing rapidly worldwide. given that competitors are growing stronger and advancing dynamically, and that full operational capacity is needed to take full advantage of galileo, the project requires further investment, to the extent indicated by the rapporteur.
in writing. - mr president, after almost a year of work by the special committee on political challenges and budgetary resources, the future decisions on spending priorities for an effective and efficient use of community appropriations for the implementation of results-oriented policies have finally been presented. bearing in mind that the eu budget is primarily an investment budget, capable of generating additional investment from public and private sources, it is necessary that it can be appropriately aligned with changing circumstances and priorities. the decision to increase the resources of the new multiannual financial framework by 5% will ensure the stability of the existing programming cycles and the launching of new investments in areas such as the european energy and transport networks, which will in turn enable europe to defend its competitiveness and prepare the ground for long-term economic growth. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new eu-us partnership agreement on the environment, which is expected to be signed in the near future.
in writing. − mr president, the report on a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe is a valuable piece of collective analysis on the future configurations of the eu budget. it estimates the financial resources needed for the union to attain its objectives and carry out its policies for the period starting 1 january 2014. its essential point is a request for an increase of at least 5% in the total eu budget for 2013, and the request for the introduction of an autonomous source of funding. the report stresses very clearly that without sufficient additional resources in the post-2013 mff, the union will not be able to fulfil the existing policy priorities, linked in particular to the europe 2020 strategy, or the new tasks provided for by the treaty of lisbon, let alone respond to unforeseen events. i voted in favour of this report also because it calls for a more transparent, simpler and fairer financing system for the european union.
in writing. - i vote against mr polledo's report on certain points which i consider to be critical in the proposal put to the vote. although some paragraphs are shared, such as the one on the reduction of the european parliament to a single seat, the report calls for the introduction of a genuine european tax to finance the activities of the eu. there is talk of funding for roma communities, a subject which my political training has always opposed, there is talk of substantial spending forecasts for further eu enlargement in the western balkans area, another point on which i disagree. finally, european funding would be directed to developing countries in relation to climate change, an issue which, beyond the environmental propaganda, will certainly not change the fate of the ecosystem.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done, for which i gave him a positive vote. europe, through the next multiannual financial framework, must provide certain answers to the citizens who have suffered from the economic crisis for too long and must ensure solid growth in the long term. so far the european union has fallen far short of the expectations and ambitions it should have. we will have to face very complex challenges in addition to the economic crisis, demographic decline and energy shortages, and the response to these challenges will have to be sought in the eu 2020 strategy, which will have to be the political reference of the next mff. we need to identify a number of key priorities for the next mff, such as growth and jobs, sustainable development, cohesion for growth and jobs, citizenship and a global europe. the next mff should therefore be designed in a flexible way to overcome the shortcomings of the current mff. in this respect, provision should be made for an interim review which would provide the possibility of revising the ceilings. finally, the current system of extra-budgetary flexibility instruments needs to be improved, simplified and adequately funded. the next mff will have to embody the principles of a fair balance between stability, medium-term predictability and flexibility.
in writing. - the european parliament has made its voice heard on the future of the european budget by voting for the garriga report and has put forward an ambitious proposal for the next multiannual financial framework. the call for a 5% increase in the eu budget post-2013 - and thus a shift from 1.06% to 1.11% of total eu gni - reflects the will to maintain commitments to support growth and development, first and foremost the eu2020 strategy, for which adequate resources are needed. it is important to remember the added value of the european budget, which can act as a driving force for economic growth, research and development and employment, especially for young people, in addition to national budgets. the report also reinforces parliament's support for new financial instruments, such as the financial transaction tax and eurobonds, which represent an opportunity for the european economy. it is now up to the commission to match the european parliament's ambition by presenting its own proposals for the next european financial framework and not becoming a hostage to the restrictive budgetary policies of the member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr garriga polledo on the excellent work he has done on the important subject of the future financial perspective. the honourable member has in fact presented to the house an effective summary of the positions of the various national delegations and political groups. i strongly support the decision to request an increase in resources for the next multiannual financial framework of at least 5%. i would also like to emphasize the part of the report on the common agricultural policy, considering my role as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i therefore express my full support for the choice to keep the agricultural budget at least unchanged, recalling that the cap is the only true european policy, capable of playing an important role in a strategic sector, capable of providing public goods and of generating genuine european added value. finally, i would like to highlight the vote on cohesion policy, where a safeguard clause was inserted in the event of the introduction of the so-called intermediate categories, to avoid the withdrawal of resources from the regions covered by the convergence, competitiveness and cooperation objective. this means that additional resources will be needed to finance a new objective.
in writing. − the budget of the european union should provide the highest level of european added value, should be managed effectively and should employ as many public and private resources as possible. to meet the challenges ahead, we support the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which should enable europe to recover from the crisis and strengthen itself through job creation and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is the political reference for the next multiannual financial framework, which should be as ambitious as possible. in this context, we believe that the priority areas for the next financial programming should be the following: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the future of the european union. the structure of the next multiannual financial framework must be realistic, facilitate continuity of planning, avoid the gaps of the current one and above all strike the right balance between stability, medium-term predictability and flexibility. finally, we believe that in order to make the budget of the european union more fair and transparent, the existing exceptions and correction mechanisms should be phased out.
in writing. - the report by mr salvador garriga on 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe' is an important step in the institutional and economic reshaping of the european union after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. we all know that the new treaty calls for new areas of competence to be taken into account in the next multiannual financial framework. this will no doubt help us to meet the new global challenges. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr garriga polledo's report because i believe that in the future financial instruments must be effective, strengthen cohesion and prepare the eu for the challenges of the global market. i agree with the wording. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. i do not think it is appropriate to include a reference to the financial transaction tax in this report. the debate on the tax is important, but it requires a thorough analysis. the introduction of an intermediate category would, on the other hand, undermine the horizontal approach for objective 2 regions, the phasing-out system and the funds for objective 1 regions, which have proved effective in recent years, and would result in damage to the italian regions, to the benefit of those in the new member states, which already, with the recent enlargement, benefit from a large share of the funds.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments to mr garriga's report which called for the introduction, for the next financial programming period, of intermediate categories of regions, i.e. those areas with a per capita gdp between 75% and 90% of the union's gdp. this innovation, which appears to be an attempt to open up the market and to increase financial flexibility in a period of austerity and budgetary restrictions such as the present one, necessarily entails a reduction in funds in relation to the other regions and particularly penalizes those in objective 1 (convergence), including the regions of southern italy. i am sorry to see that my colleagues have not grasped this aspect and have allowed themselves to be influenced by logic which is contrary to the principles of european solidarity. fortunately, amendment no 64 which has been adopted underlines that these transitional measures must not, in any case, be at the expense of the existing regions with the convergence, competitiveness and cooperation objectives (objectives 1, 2, 3).
in writing. − i believe that with today's vote the european parliament has sent a strong and clear signal to the member states who are asking for a freeze on the eu budget for 2014-2020. this substantial reduction in resources is not a viable option for those who believe in a truly competitive europe, and the countries making this demand should also consistently state which priority projects should be abandoned to cope with such cuts. the bad habit of making political commitments without sufficient financial resources must be stopped, because it undermines the design and credibility of the whole european system. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external action programme for the period 2007-2013 is a good one.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on the revised hungarian constitution.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very disappointed by the instrumental tone of this debate. i would also like to refer to the recent statements by mr lunacek, for example on the subject of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation: the italian constitution does not contain any reference to this, so when will there be a debate in the european parliament on the italian constitution? it is also quite extraordinary because in my country the only party which would like to change the constitution is the centre-right party of mr berlusconi, to which the left has been replying for 15 years that we must not change the constitution because otherwise democracy will fall. so, be careful, because when we open a debate about what is or is not in a constitutional text maybe we should clear the field of a misunderstanding: do we really think it is a risk to modernity that this constitution mentions the rights of the unborn? do we really think that the mention of the christian roots of a country in this constitution could pose a threat to identity? i think we should all get used to the text of the european constitution, which has not yet become one, which had the motto 'united in diversity', and try to be a little more tolerant of the diversity of each one of us. we must understand that at this moment a huge consensus in hungary has brought to the fore the need of a people and that this need must be accompanied by a strong europe which recognizes the rights of all and the duties of each.
the new hungarian constitution, madam president, reduces the power of control bodies such as the constitutional court and increases the powers of the executive, thus calling into question the normal balance of power. social rights are exhausted, the state provides subsidies to the needy only if they agree to perform public works. finally, the right to self-defense is enshrined, allowing people to possess weapons in the home even without a license. the right to abortion is banned and rules are introduced which are highly discriminatory against homosexuals. this is contrary to directive 78/2000, which establishes a general framework for combating discrimination. i would therefore ask the commissioner what action she intends to take, given that the fundamental rights of the new hungarian constitution are hardly compatible with those of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
we are in the "catch the eye" procedure and therefore the "blue card" procedure is not allowed.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i had asked to have a clear line from the european parliament. well, there was no clear line from the european parliament. i heard a lot of diverging opinions, which in itself shows how complex this matter is. so let me underline once more that the commission respects the lisbon treaty and does not intervene in the sovereignty of nation states. on behalf of president barroso, i would like to underline once more that the commission does not make political judgements on the fundamental constitutional and institutional choices that a member state makes. the adoption of a new constitution in a member state is a matter for its people and for its institutions. as i have already underlined, we could become competent when the constitution is translated into legislative, administrative or judicial practice. i can assure parliament that we would not hesitate for a moment to intervene in such a case if the treaty or the charter was violated or if union law was not respected. turning to ms guillaume’s question on union law: when union law is at stake i have never shied away from action. the question raised by ms guillaume concerns an awareness-raising campaign on the work-life balance, which was supported by the progress programme. this is part of the campaign consisting of promotion material showing a foetus with the words ‘let me live’, with the commission’s logo. i made it very clear: this campaign is not in line with the progress programme and it is not in line with the project proposal submitted to the commission services by the hungarian authorities. therefore the commission asked for this part of the campaign to be stopped without further delay and for all existing posters to be removed. if this is not done, we will start procedures to terminate the ground agreement and draw necessary consequences, including financial ones. that is how we answer when european law is at stake. constitutions are not within our competence.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank this house for the particular attention it has paid to my government’s activities in the last semester. the hungarian presidency is strongly convinced that the newly adopted – not revised – hungarian constitution is fully in line with the basic values and principles on which the union is founded. since the beginning of our presidency, we have dedicated all our energy and have been tireless in our efforts in promoting the common european agenda. i am especially pleased that not even the critics, who were mentioned during today’s debate, have questioned the firmness and the sincerity of my government’s commitment.
i can assure you, mr sargentini, that we have exceeded the 45 minutes we were supposed to have. all the members were able to speak, i let them speak, for at least 15 seconds and even for a minute, and the balance between the political groups was perfectly respected. however, you have the opportunity to go and check and therefore, obviously, the opportunity to complain. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes oral questions to the council and the commission on the european arrest warrant.
mr president, the european arrest warrant is certainly a fundamental instrument in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i think there is agreement and agreement on this from all those who have spoken, including the presidency and the commission. at the same time, it is a certification of how judicial and police cooperation in a transnational dimension of crime can achieve important goals. the waiting times have been resolved and the costs are currently to be verified and this needs to be investigated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. it would be useful - i am addressing myself to mrs reding - to involve the european public prosecutor in this structure, which, once it is in place, will be able to have a kind of review and evaluation of these statements by the judicial authorities of the member states, for which further training is absolutely necessary. it is true that prison conditions are not the same in all the member states, but we hope that next week the commission will amend the communication and the green paper on essential prison conditions, which will then have to shape further behaviour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, the european arrest warrant is the first instrument to be used in the european union to implement the principle of mutual recognition of criminal decisions. this instrument is and must be of fundamental importance, especially in the fight against the mafia and organized crime! in the report on organised crime, for which i am rapporteur in the libe committee, we are proposing a number of considerations and requests relating specifically to the european arrest warrant: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eam to include the fight against organised crime. i therefore ask the commission what it intends to do and whether it intends to put forward a proposal to overcome the discretion of the member states in transposing articles 3 and 4 of the framework decision as regards the grounds for mandatory and optional non-enforcement. as regards the grounds for non-execution, i would also like to know whether they should not be restricted to offences typically linked to organised crime, including the crime of mafia association, for which there should in any case be no double criminalization.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, there is general agreement in this house that the european arrest warrant is a positive tool and has served the european union well and acted as a security. the negative elements are in the implementation. those negative elements have to be eliminated. the proposals which the commission has put on the table for this purpose are the proportionality test, where we have to look at the seriousness of the offence, the length of the sentence which this offence would carry, and the cost/benefit of executing such an arrest warrant. in order to make this proportionality test easier, the commission will present an amended handbook as a guideline for the application of the proportionality test. training, which is very high on the agenda for the coming weeks, months and years, will be very important because we have to train judges, prosecutors and lawyers in the application of our european rules. the minimum standards for suspects and accused persons, which are under implementation, are very important because they also apply to the european arrest warrant. i agree with all those parliamentarians who have underlined the problem of prison conditions in europe. i would like to tell them that next week the commission will adopt a green paper on detention. national governments are responsible for detention issues and prison management, but the commission’s role is to make sure that judicial cooperation works and fundamental rights of all citizens are upheld. that is why the green paper will kick off a public consultation, which will run until 30 november and will help to explore more closely the links between detention issues and mutual trust in europe’s area of justice. everybody in this house knows that detention conditions have a direct impact on the smooth functioning of the mutual recognition of judicial decisions and are the basis for cooperation between judges in the eu. but the system is impeded if judges refuse – sometimes rightly so – to extradite accused persons because the detention conditions in the requesting country are substandard. we all know about prison overcrowding and the allegations of poor treatment of detainees. these factors undermine the trust that is necessary for judicial cooperation. the time that a person can spend in detention before being tried in court and during court proceedings varies a lot between member states. we have a lot of work ahead of us, and i know i can count on parliament. i hope i can also count on the member states.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you very much for this debate. it is clear that an overwhelming majority says that it is good that we have a cooperation system for our judiciaries, the european arrest warrant. the system works. it is not perfect. it should be improved further. we are, of course, open to more efficient use and better implementation. i agree that mistakes, arrests of innocent people, etc., should be avoided. better implementation is, i think, in the interests of us all. i would be more specific on two outstanding issues which were raised several times during the debate. first, on proportionality: just to make it clear, a european arrest warrant can be issued to prosecute offences which are punishable by at least 12 months’ imprisonment, or to execute a sentence to at least 4 months’ imprisonment. this has been standard extradition practice for at least 50 years. it is enough to mention the 1957 council of europe convention on extradition. in the fourth round of mutual evaluations on the practical implementation of the european arrest warrant in all member states, it was found that only in a few countries were there examples of issuing european arrest warrants for relatively minor offences. it seems that, in those few countries, the practice was to issue a european arrest warrant every time a national arrest order was issued. in general terms, i believe that we should only use the costly system of the european arrest warrant for more serious offences. i think that those who mentioned this were right. concerning prison conditions: the member states are under a general obligation to ensure that prison conditions are in accordance with the basic tenets of human dignity and do not violate the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment laid down in article 3 of the european convention on human rights. if people are detained in violation of their basic human rights, they can take action before domestic courts and, later, before the european court of human rights. it is doubtful whether article 85 of the treaty provides a legal basis for legislative action at eu level on prison conditions as such. however, we are, of course, awaiting the green paper which the commissioner has just mentioned with great interest.
in writing. mr president, seven years after the entry into force (1 january 2004) of the council framework decision of 13 june 2002 on the european arrest warrant (eaw) and procedures between member states, the commission has released some statistical data collected between 2005 and 2009 within the member states. before the mandate was introduced, the average time for extradition of wanted persons was one year, whereas in these four years of the eia it was found that about 50% of wanted persons consented to their surrender after about 15 days. the need to take stock of the implementation and functioning of the emn is crucial at a time when the proper functioning of the schengen system and the possibility of its suspension are being called into question. let us not forget that the effectiveness of the emn in the fight against transnational crime, organised crime and terrorism depends on the principle of mutual recognition between member states, which is the basis of a genuine european judicial area, and also on the proper functioning of the schengen area. to compromise this context would be to take a step backwards rather than to concentrate on improving the transposition of the framework decision, especially in terms of the protection of fundamental rights.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the dialogue between the european union and russia must be extended as much as possible in the different fields, from the economy to human rights, because there is no alternative to dialogue! europe and russia are in fact interdependent, both economically and politically! i am thinking of the open international issues, such as energy security, the maghreb, nuclear iran, terrorism, the caucasus, nagorno-karabakh, climate change and others. russia is a strategic partner for europe, including the synergies that can be built in the future. moscow can put at our disposal - as is already partly the case - mineral and energy resources, cooperation in military security and the fight against terrorism and organised crime. europe can contribute with financial resources, scientific and technological capabilities and our historical experience in the democratic and human rights dimension. the future of russia is linked to that of europe and must be built with perseverance, without complacency and despite the many difficulties at present. in this sense, the conclusion of the strategic partnership agreement between the european union and russia is of great importance for the common future.
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation for relations with the countries of central asia and mongolia, which i have the honour of chairing, had the opportunity to visit mongolia just three weeks ago on the occasion of the eighth interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and mongolia. it was a very useful and interesting experience, mongolia is a country which deserves to be known more closely and there are not many opportunities in this parliament to give it the attention it undoubtedly deserves. it is a country with a multiparty parliamentary system, a separation of powers, a comparatively free public opinion and a level of human rights protection that stands out in a positive way compared to the situation in many other countries in the region. it is also a developing country, facing a difficult environmental situation and progressive desertification, and has recently been hit by extreme weather conditions. at the same time, it is a country rich in natural resources - copper, gold, uranium, rare earths - which could provide a significant inflow of financial resources in the near future. for all these reasons, i think it is important to give a signal of support to mongolia at this crucial stage of its development, to support the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, parliamentary control, so that the financial resources at mongolia's disposal will be used in the future for the welfare of the population. mongolia must be encouraged in its desire to forge closer relations with the european union, to adopt our industrial standards and norms, but also to move towards a market economy and closer economic and trade relations, made possible by a climate of legal certainty and the development of the rule of law. the partnership and cooperation agreement which the european union and mongolia are concluding plays a decisive role in this context. for all these reasons, we have tabled this oral question with 45 other colleagues. the text asks the european commission to provide more information on the main content of the agreement and on its possible timetable for ratification. i would remind you that the agreement has already been initialled, but its signing is currently blocked, apparently because of the concerns of one member state about the legal basis for certain rules. in addition, the commission would like to be asked whether it is possible to open a delegation of the european union in ulaanbaatar in the near future. such an initiative could make a significant contribution to further deepening political and economic cooperation with that country.
madam president, apart from the opening of the delegation office in ulaanbaatar - which is no longer deferred, also because it is bad for beijing to maintain relations for symbolic reasons - apart from the long-awaited partnership agreement, we are all aware of both the country's mineral wealth and its weaknesses in terms of social justice, even though mongolia, in its own way, has found a form of democratic cohesion. i would ask the commission in particular where mongolia should be placed from a geostrategic point of view: it is not a country covered by the central asia strategy. i think, however, that perhaps some of the measures of this strategy could include mongolia, taking into account its cultural background, which is similar to that of other countries. it is also an observer country in the osce, and the european union is considering helping it to become a full member, given the long-standing cultural links between europe and mongolia.
if you're okay with it, i'm gonna stop the blue card process because there are three more requests. i am in favour of continuing the debate, but i would like to avoid controversy. so let's move on to the debate.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to take up some of your main comments and suggestions in connection with the stress test for the next few months. but first, if you are concerned that a stress test is becoming a badge of goodwill without objectivity, then i want to do everything possible in the next few months, together with my services, to remove the basis of this assumption. (applause from the centre) i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. my request is that you do not judge a nuclear power plant until the stress tests have been carried out and also me and my work not now, but afterwards. i am happy to offer this to everyone, including colleagues such as mrs harms and mr turmes, with the readiness to take the next steps in a critical and transparent manner. secondly, if you assume that in the end, stress testing will not be a placebo, not blindly giving out quality labels, but will be constructively critical and objectively assessed, then i would argue that these stress tests will offer many benefits, and the alternative of not doing stress testing would be a worse solution. (applause from the centre) we negotiated hard. the first draft did not meet my expectations, and what was then signed largely meets the expectations of the citizens in their legitimate concern for a high level of european security. i would like to ask you, mr turmes, to take this opportunity to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. if i had not signed this draft of the criteria, which i think is a good one, we would have nothing. let me put it this way: a sparrow in the hand is worth more than a dead pigeon on the roof. secondly, you may expect me to be thorough and objective, but i have noticed a number of things. there was a speech by a liberal member of parliament from england, whose party is in government in england, who was against nuclear power before the election, and who supported nuclear power after the election, and who now criticises my thoroughness in the stress tests. i can only say that this speech would have been more appropriate in london at the party congress than here in strasbourg. or a second note: the spanish government did not visibly support me in the thorough stress tests. that is why the intervention of a colleague from the spanish governing party is also of little help here. this is also true of the family to which i belong, the epp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to put it in a sporting way, i am interested in the french socialists' election programme on this subject. i'm very interested in who's running, what the program is. i would like to say that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not a mere spectator. so, to the point. the energy mix remains the responsibility of national governments and parliaments. this is something to be welcomed or deplored. i have to accept it as a democrat. the fact that we are now, for the first time, having independent teams monitoring the national nuclear inspectorate, that there is an inspection of the inspectors, is, in my view, a historic step forward in the interests of common european security for our citizens. dear mr. turmes, a plane crash is the subject of the stress test. the consequences of an aircraft hitting a nuclear power plant are explicitly covered by our test criteria and will therefore be the subject of my third stage study. i'd be happy to show you. mr turmes, if every member of parliament were as restless as you are, we'd have a mess here. only one person can afford that. we can talk about it later. aircraft crashes are considered because their impact on the safety of nuclear power plants is explicitly covered by the criteria. the next point is that i am accused of having concealed the fact that i was volunteering. the opposite is true. i have always stressed from the first meeting in the committee that the stress test is voluntary. but we have got every member state to play along. all 14 member states are involved voluntarily, which is a great success for the european parliament too. what happens at the end? i'll also make a very clear statement: i'm betting on the power of the factual. if there are serious deficiencies in a nuclear power plant, the european public and the public in the member state will demand consequences. i believe that. that is why transparency, thoroughness and objectivity are so important. i intend to promote this in the coming months. the proposal to amend the euratom treaty is a wonderful one. the euratom treaty is the only primary law, so it is not primarily the commission but the member states. amendments to the euratom treaty must be adopted unanimously. i can only say to anyone who has good suggestions: do you really think that with the diversity of voices, both for and against nuclear power, a unanimous revision of the euratom treaty is likely? i think that's going to be a little unlikely. that's why i'm being realistic and saying i'm making the best of the contract we have. then there is the question of the independence of the examination. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection, the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection, and the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. any other suggestion would be dishonest to our officers. that's why i'm explicitly protecting my officers in this process. then there is the question of belarus and russia. in fact, our authority, yours as parliament, ours as commission, is unfortunately very limited in minsk. we have to accept that. maybe we can think of a way to get the government there to do better. but for the moment, we have to accept that in minsk there is a government without a concept, without transparency, without democracy and without a sense of security. that's why you can only appeal. that's all we can do. we have a much better partnership with russia. and the subject of safety tests for nuclear power stations will be a central part of the talks with the russian partners in the coming weeks. they asked about kaliningrad. i now say to my friends in the baltic states and poland: we could only impose our strictest technical requirements on kaliningrad for a new nuclear power plant planned or under construction if we also accepted electricity from there on the european market. but if we do not accept electricity and if it is not possible to exchange electricity because we are planning to build our own nuclear power stations in the baltic states, then our authority over the technology in kaliningrad is much less than if there were an open electricity market. i'm happy to offer in-depth discussions here. in conclusion, i would ask you to accept that i will not be subject to a stress test, but you must also accept that the stress test will not be automatically terminated simply because your programme is not successful in your member states. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the following are to be taken into account:
mr president, i am speaking in accordance with rule 173 of our rules of procedure. tonight the supreme court of brazil denied the extradition of the serial killer cesare battisti. two resolutions of our parliament called for a decision to the contrary. i therefore wish to express my regret and hope that the presidency of parliament will write a letter expressing the regret of the whole european parliament to the brazilian authorities and expressing above all our solidarity and our sorrow to the families of the victims who have been waiting for justice for thirty years.
mr president, i would like to take a few moments to express my best wishes to mrs weisberger, who has just become a mother and is here with her baby, and to all the new mothers in this parliament and those who will become mothers and who, like me, are struggling to be good mothers and good members of parliament. it is good to see this house being cheered by symbols of hope, but ... (speaker is disturbed by noise in the chamber). i ask for your attention because it is important and i want to express my thoughts. let us see if you can get more serious, because in the last few days i have unfortunately heard phrases like 'parliament is not a playground. this isn't a daycare. the children out and the mothers out". and worse, "the presence of children dishonors the image of the mps". it is very absurd that such a phrase should be used in this house, especially when it is used by women, since we are very often dealing with legislation on the reconciliation of family and working life.
i think it's only fair that you can't vote for someone else.
mr president, sudan is the largest country in sub-saharan africa, a crossroads between the arab and african worlds, and a mosaic of numerous and diverse ethnic groups. as stipulated in the comprehensive peace agreement, the referendum was held in january 2011 and marked the final stage of the path towards south sudan's independence from north sudan. south sudan is an area of about ten million people, covering almost a quarter of the area of what is now sudan and holding about three quarters of the oil reserves. it will be a state that will have to face major geographical and infrastructural constraints, being landlocked and with a virtually non-existent transport network linking it to northern sudan, where the infrastructure for the processing and transit of oil is located. the south will have to face many challenges, starting with laying the foundations of its institutions and improving its socioeconomic and security framework. i would remind you, however, that the european union's intervention in the country remains a priority. in 2010, the council therefore allocated a special allocation of eur 150 million to sudan for the period 2011-2013. the european union must mobilise all the instruments at its disposal to support south sudan in the delicate post-referendum phase. at the same time, a balanced approach between the north and the south of the country needs to be maintained, with particular attention to the needs of the south in terms of institution building and governance. the european union's assistance to south sudan should be calibrated to the effective absorption capacity of the new state entity. it is necessary to prevent future financial flows to ayuba from being misused or even worse from fuelling the existing high level of corruption.
mr president, there is no doubt that the resolution adopted today is an important signal of the increased cooperation and collaboration between the european union and russia. economic governance, cooperation areas in the field of security, justice and freedom, the fight against organised crime, but at the same time the protection of inviolable rights. north africa and the middle east need a common approach and we are convinced of the key role that russia can play in this direction. this partnership and cooperation agreement, which is scheduled for the summit on 9 and 10 june, can be an important steering-wheel for strengthening this cooperation, which we hope will lead to russia's membership of the world trade organisation and to a boost in visa facilitation. at the same time, russia will have to play its full part, especially in the area of fundamental rights.
mr president, i would like to stress that there will be an important issue to be discussed at the bilateral summit today and tomorrow, but one which i do not think is mentioned in our joint resolution. in other words, i think that this summit could be overshadowed by a split over the ban on the import of vegetables from europe because of the escherichia coli bacterium. as the european commission has already said, i think it is absurd that russia should impose an embargo on products which we consume every day and which we are carefully analysing. i find the russian reaction to be more of a political action, like many others we have seen in the past. i think that my colleagues will share my view, also as a member of the agri committee. i therefore think it is appropriate to discuss this issue at the summit, asking russia to immediately lift the ban on the import of vegetables from the european union, as this is a disproportionate and unjustified measure and as such is not in line with the principles laid down by the world trade organisation, especially when analysed in the light of russia's candidacy for wto membership. prime minister putin has already stated that russia will not lift the ban until the european union provides details of the source of the escherichia coli outbreak.
mr president, i have done some research on this subject and found that - paradoxically, given the size of the country - the issue is being dealt with with with particular interest in switzerland, where there is a great deal of news and pamphlets on the subject, while there is much less information coming from europe. it is no coincidence that the problem, even after the application of directive 2006/114/ec, continues to affect an impressive number of businesses - especially small and medium-sized enterprises - and consumers across europe. in the face of well over 400 petitions, as mentioned in a paragraph of the resolution, we are debating the matter again in this house today. the problem is that there are still regular cases of traders who unknowingly sign contracts for a fee for subscription to a trade directory. those who read the registration forms only superficially and sign them without thinking and without careful examination may be in for unpleasant surprises that may cost them dearly. in recent years, commercial practices similar to those described above have become widespread throughout europe and are difficult to combat effectively under current law. the vote in favour this morning is therefore intended primarily for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises, which make a great contribution to our economic system.
in writing. - i particularly welcome parliament's resolution on sudan and south sudan, which reaffirms full respect for the referendum which, in january 2011, sanctioned the independence of south sudan. the resolution thus expresses support for the principle of self-determination of peoples and recognises the right of the christian community in south sudan to establish a state of its own, not subject to the authority of the muslim majority. the document stresses the need for the two new states created by the partition of sudan to recognize each other's sovereignty and calls for measures to facilitate their strengthening and stabilisation on the basis of democracy, respect for human rights and mutual recognition. the defence of the principle of self-determination and the protection of christian minorities in the world are both fundamental aspects of the political theory of the northern league, and i can only express my positive opinion of this resolution.
in writing. − we respect the outcome of the independence referendum in south sudan, scheduled for 9 july 2011, as an expression of the democratic will of the sudanese people. we hope that the political authorities will promote the development of a modern, pluralistic and democratic state based on the rule of law and respectful of human rights; support the primacy of the right of citizens to choose their government through free and periodic elections, while protecting the freedoms of movement, association and expression of political opinions. we also agree that all parties should engage in a continuous and constructive dialogue to resolve the issues left unresolved by the referendum, including common borders, citizenship arrangements for citizens of both the northern and southern parts of the country and the sharing of oil revenues. finally, we support the need for new european funds to support basic services, in particular education, health, agriculture, food security and institutional capacity building. the eu will have to maintain humanitarian aid to sudan and south sudan beyond 9 july 2011 and all political parties will have to work together to fully represent the entire population and to help build democratic and stable political institutions.
in writing. the european union is not a party to the conflict. the resolution contains the right recommendations for the european delegates attending the summit, reminding them that the eu must use its political power to get russia to take up its share of responsibility in solving the problems facing the planet today, politically, economically, geopolitically and environmentally. russia is one of europe's most important economic partners and a neighbour on whom, among other things, european energy policy depends. with my vote in favour, i therefore join our assembly's call to the european delegates at the summit to work within the framework of this event for a fruitful and mutually beneficial dialogue leading to shared and effective solutions to the most important issues on the european and world political agenda.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the european union and russia are of great importance for the stability, security and prosperity not only of europe but of all other regions of the world. i hope that today's vote will lead to decisive steps to embark together on a path of transparency and sharing of common tasks for the good of the community. i am referring to the measures needed to prevent any breach of security in europe, including increased cooperation on illegal immigration, a strengthened system of checks at border posts and a more effective exchange of information on terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. − enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the european union and russia are of great importance for the stability, security and prosperity not only of europe but of all other regions of the world. we believe that a comprehensive and legally binding agreement is necessary, covering the political, economic and social system and therefore including all the areas of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and in particular fundamental rights. as regards energy security, we believe that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a tool for political pressure but should be based on the principles of interdependence and transparency, as well as equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, so as to establish a legally binding energy framework. we also expect greater cooperation on illegal immigration, increased controls at border posts and the exchange of information on terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. − russia shares with the european union the responsibility for maintaining world stability. enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the union and russia are of great importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe and other regions of the world. numerous international challenges, in particular those related to the middle east, libya, iran, terrorism, energy security, climate change and the financial crisis, cannot be effectively addressed without responsible and cooperative relations with russia. i note that concerns remain about russia's respect for and protection of human and fundamental rights, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, political control of the media, repressive measures against journalists and opposition representatives, and the fairness of the elections. i therefore encourage the russian side to engage in an open and constructive way on these issues.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this resolution on the unfair practices of the yearbook companies is a new stage in the long campaign waged by the northern league in defence of our entrepreneurs. the resolution condemns the high number of fraudulent practices affecting thousands of small businesses across the eu and points to the failure of member states to implement the 2006 directive on misleading advertising. in my vote i fully endorse the call in the resolution for the commission to take up its responsibilities and its task of scrutinizing the actions of individual states and to improve existing legislation on the protection of undertakings.
mr president, it was only in july 2003 that madagascar became an active member of the african union, since until the 1990s its political and economic ties were mainly directed towards the non-aligned socialist countries. the military coup of march 2009, however, saw the former mayor of the capital move into the presidential palace already occupied by the army that supported him. after 19 months of institutional crisis in the country, on the very day that almost 8 million malagasy were called to vote for the reform of the constitution, last november 2010 all hope of building a true democracy in this former european colony was extinguished. today, there is a transitional government in madagascar, but it does not promise anything good either in the economic sense, if we consider that people live on less than a dollar a day, or in the humanitarian sense. since to date neither the european community nor the african union has reached any compromise with the government of madagascar, certain measures have been taken, including the suspension of aid from the international monetary fund and the world bank, and our failure to recognise the transitional government. we condemn the coup and stress the urgent need for free and transparent elections, monitored by the international community.
mr. president, it was news five days ago that five alleged perpetrators of the september 11 attacks on the twin towers were again formally charged for the second time and in doing so, the obama administration formally opened the possibility of organizing a trial against them before the military commissions of the prison at guantanamo bay. while we remain absolutely condemned and outraged at all terrorist attacks and firmly condemned fundamentalist terrorism, i think it is necessary to call for the abolition of the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances. i say this because we are against any violation of fundamental human rights, whenever and wherever it occurs. in fact, we also denounced the violation of guillermo farinas' right to come here to strasbourg to collect the sakharov prize. this is the farinas whose colleagues in the gue did not want him to be awarded the sakharov prize, calling it a political instrument.
mr president, ukraine is a democracy, a friendly country, a partner of this european union, but ukraine will have to adopt european standards also in the administration of the judiciary, which is characterized by politicized processes, in which the accused party does not have all the rights and the necessary tools to face a process which in some cases is only a political process. there is a criminalization of political opponents of the incumbent government aimed only at annihilating and silencing the opposition. former prime minister yulia tymoshenko and her ministers are being attacked with the weapon of sham trials rather than with a political confrontation, albeit heated, but serious and transparent. the ukrainian government must respect the opposition, without wielding the weapon of the judiciary, and respect the rules of a democratic state and human rights, as also agreed in the eastern partnership agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that, in the case of greece, it is enough to hear what has been discussed to understand the state of european governance. it's actually a sight-based navigation, with no clear objectives. we have not been told anything about which if i were a greek citizen - perhaps a greek worker or a greek small businessman in ruins - i would make all possible excuses. as far as immigration is concerned, i have heard italy being reprimanded for not wanting to take in. but mrs malmström made a public statement a few hours ago and said that when the tragedy of the exodus from libya began, everyone pledged to take in at least 800 refugees per country. in reality, no one is taking them in, and he pointed to the positive case of norway. they land in lampedusa, some in malta, and we're the only ones who take them. italy has welcomed them, italy. they were talking about minister bossi and there is also minister of the interior maroni, ministers of this racist league who welcomed them. until proven otherwise, this is the truth. finally, the chapter on croatia. the entry of croatia is very important, but it is also important to remember that the pope warned the croats to beware of a bureaucratic and centralist construction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the complexity, if we are to be dramatic, of the council's agenda for 24 june that confronts us with the scarcity of the instruments at our disposal. and what do we have? we have the european union at our disposal. the european union, that is, a construction in progress, not completed, which our fragility and our fear have so often prevented from being fulfilled. we have the european union and we do not have the united states of europe. we have no instrument at our disposal which, in the face of the hesitation of national governments, linked to internal logic, can be used to achieve what may be the solution to the problems. if we are to have a united states of europe at last, we need leadership from national governments, but above all from the european institutions. i believe that president barroso is no longer here and that his prudence has earned him a second term. i'd love to vote for him a third time, but this time for his courage. i mean, if he got re-elected once for his prudence, the third time i'd like to re-elect him for his courage. i therefore expect that, in the face of the dramatic agenda which the council will have to face on 24 june, it will be the leadership of the commission and the european institutions that will convince national governments to put our ideals ahead of our interests. i think this is the only viable way. otherwise we will continue to have discussions in which we will complain that for internal reasons perhaps the french government has taken an initiative on schengen, or the italian government has refused to take anyone in, or the greek government is still too fragile to be able to take responsibility for its choices. but there 's another problem . the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that no country can cope with this emergency on its own. it is essential that a policy for managing large migratory flows should go hand in hand with development cooperation and include multilateral and bilateral agreements with the countries of origin and transit of migrants. unfortunately, as italy is experiencing, the new instruments of european external action have not been used in accordance with the spirit and ambition of the treaties. the member states at the forefront of the refugee crisis have had to take unilateral action without the support of european solidarity. i therefore ask the european commission to define what constitutes a 'mass influx of displaced persons' within the meaning of directive 2001/55/ec on temporary protection, by establishing precise and measurable criteria which can be maintained. this clarification is important in order to promote an effective common migration policy and ensure burden sharing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fear and mutual distrust - as mr mauro said a few moments ago - are the sentiments that are driving the european governments' decisions on the crisis. europe seems to me to be that football team that is losing 2-0 and whose players think they can recover without passing the ball and trying to score goals themselves. but you can't win any games by yourself. even if there were maradona and pelé, they wouldn't win the crisis game by themselves. the greek crisis was initially contained. we have moved on and we are at a very difficult juncture which must be tackled by putting aside once and for all harmful jealousies and failed economic recipes. let's face it, let's admit that many of the current national rulers are proving to be b-class leaders. they fail to understand that the crisis is not greece's fault, nor the situation with sovereign debts, but the fault of the financial markets which were unregulated until the next day. and then the governments offer us the same poisoned meatball: we'll settle the accounts and then see who's left alive. but no one will survive! and above all, the vital part of european society is not left alive! instead, we must aim at growth, by focusing and concentrating resources on research, training and large networks, and by setting in motion a virtuous mechanism. finally, on immigration, we say things with clarity: schengen is not touched, at most it can be strengthened, but it is not touched because it is an indispensable achievement that keeps the european union standing. we must manage migration flows from brussels in a way that rewards inclusion, solidarity and security.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate mr deß on the hard work he has done together with all the shadow rapporteurs. we are particularly pleased that there are references to the penalised areas in this report. we are particularly concerned about the mountain areas. we are particularly pleased that there is support for small farms, which are essential because they are of great importance both for the protection of the territory and for the quality of the products produced in these small farms. and we are particularly pleased that there are also extensive references to young farmers, who are the future of what agriculture is. but we all know that the big battle now has to be fought over the budget, and so, commissioner, this is an appeal to you, who knows this better than i do, and to all the other members here. we cannot afford to have the cap cut, because that would mean that agriculture is probably worth less in europe. it is clear that if agriculture is worth less in europe, then agricultural products and therefore all our food are worth less. we obviously don't think so. i would like to make one final comment on the question of imports. as you know, imports are not part of the cap, but they are another fundamental element that must go hand in hand with the cap, because if we import low-quality and low-cost products, our agriculture is doomed to fail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the intensive work of the rapporteur, mr deß, and of the shadow rapporteurs, which i of course welcome, is reaching its final stage today. a new cap means a great deal for europe, for the future of its agriculture and for the survival of vast rural areas. the new common agricultural policy must enable european citizens to enjoy adequate production of quality food and support the production of public goods without a market. to achieve these objectives, new, more effective and, above all, simpler tools for farmers are needed, together with more flexible access to resources and less red tape. we also need market instruments to deal effectively with the unfortunately recurrent crises, but also instruments for prevention and insurance against the risks typical of the agricultural sector. we need a cap for young people, to whom we can entrust the agriculture of the future. we have chosen to promote the protection of biodiversity and the many specific features of the european union's territory and production through a rural development policy which makes it possible to exploit the full natural and human potential of rural areas, but we must also aim to make agricultural enterprises competitive. that is why i would like to stress to the commission the need to provide for measures in rural development aimed at technology transfer. in line with the vote in the committee on agriculture, i believe that we can confirm the importance of supporting the introduction of ceilings on the granting of direct payments to large economic enterprises. i believe that the introduction of a degressivity of aid to increase the size of the holding above a certain threshold is necessary to avoid overcompensation of larger holdings which already benefit from significant economies of scale. i cannot help stressing the need for adequate financing of the common agricultural policy. this parliament cannot accept a reduction in rural development resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr deß's report opens a new phase in the process of reforming the common agricultural policy. the committee on agriculture has worked hard for several months, and i would also like to thank mr deß and all the shadow and parliamentary groups for their work. parliament can now express a clear opinion on the future of the common agricultural policy: a strong, simple, flexible, greener cap that looks at young people and jobs. that is why, commissioner, we are concerned by the press reports in recent days about a budget reduction, especially in the second pillar, which is incompatible both with the contents of the deß report and with the report on the financial perspectives of the european union by mr garriga polledo, which we voted in plenary in recent weeks and which introduced the important principle for the common agricultural policy of maintaining the current level of resources in the next financial programming period. that is why, commissioner, we would like to know what has been said and whether you have taken a different line from what you have said so far.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the common agricultural policy is the european policy which has had to be renewed more than any other over the years in order to cope with the continuing changes in the economic landscape, including the international one. this was done without ever losing sight of two main objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. the cap reform we are voting on tomorrow is essential to continue to support the income of our farmers, as my colleagues have already said. the aim is not to reduce direct subsidies but to strike a balance between direct subsidies and rural development, so that the system becomes ever simpler and fairer, without jeopardizing the rules of competition. as regards the objectives of the cap under the europe 2020 strategy, the cap can contribute to the growth of a sustainable economy by responding adequately to new challenges and taking into account the diversity and richness of agriculture and the specificities of the 27 european states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the common agricultural policy and the role it has played in the development of the european union and in food security is well known. environmental challenges and the fight against climate change give the cap a new role after 2013, and i believe that a stronger and more sustainable cap is needed, with a budget that is able to meet the objectives to be pursued, with particular attention to the development of quality food products and the needs of the small farmer. speculation on agricultural raw materials and extreme price volatility put food security at risk and require flexible measures. any market fluctuations must be countered by countercyclical measures, to be provided for in the first pillar, capable of reacting in a timely and automatic manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting in favour of this own-initiative report because the cap is the fundamental instrument for european agriculture and for the protection of producers and products in the union as compared with those outside the union. the report's main points, which are based on the maintenance of the current financial resources, include new sharing criteria, as the historical criterion is abandoned as a parameter for the redistribution of direct payments, premiums are provided for farms, labour and production costs are taken into account and payment is simplified. it is called for direct payments to be made only to active farmers with ceilings, precisely because the recipients are those who actually cultivate the land and not the speculators. another point which we consider important is rural development, the development of all natural and human potential through quality agricultural production and the protection of the mountains. the new cap will have to target the integration of new farmers, especially young farmers, with targeted funding lines and reduce burdens and red tape.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report is an important step towards reform of the common agricultural policy. it will be fundamental and important to find and provide an efficient justification for the distribution of agricultural resources. this means that the distribution of the first pillar must also be more equitable. i think it's finally time to abandon the historical approach. we have a lot of discussion about the distribution between member states, but we also have to discuss the distribution within member states. there are also great imbalances. special attention must be paid to less-favoured areas, especially mountain areas and small farms. the commission has already submitted a report on the redefinition of the lessfavoured areas a year ago. we were very critical back then. we have not heard anything more about it, and i would be very interested to know what the commission thinks about it.
in writing. i would like to express my satisfaction at this first text on the future of the cap, which is already intended to send a positive message to our farmers to the commission, pending the legislative text. i think that many of the paragraphs contain the information that i and other colleagues have inserted. and i refer to the important quotations in favour of our southern agriculture. direct aid, for example, will no longer be based solely on a premium per hectare, but will finally take into account the size of the holding, the type of employment, the productivity of labour and the legal form of the undertaking. i am also enthusiastic about the award of these prizes only to farmers who are really active in the sector, so that the aid goes to those who really need it and use it for agriculture. the commission is also proposing a more equitable distribution of aid, given that the structure of agricultural holdings in the european union is very variable for historical reasons. i welcome the point that the new cap must be equipped with the necessary instruments to limit price volatility. i would like to conclude by mentioning the most widespread agricultural product in my region, olive oil, and the measures we are waiting for from the commission, an updated system of private stocks and the activation of private storage.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the economic situation in which we find ourselves in the euro area and in the european union as a whole is certainly due to many reasons, two of which stand out in particular. firstly, we have realised far too late where the economic ship of europe is heading. secondly, as soon as we realised it, the council in particular refused for a long time to take the necessary measures, which the stability and growth pact actually provides for, and also to impose the necessary sanctions. to put it bluntly, the cordon was simply not pulled. the new macroeconomic surveillance regime should address both of these problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we've developed a good scoreboard, even in a long discussion. i would like to thank the rapporteur, lisa ferreira, for her cooperation in this matter. the commission has already taken action to ensure that immediate action is taken to correct imbalances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the use of the reverse majority is so important and so vital for parliament. if we want to implement the instrument efficiently, then of course this means a transfer of competence from the capitals to brussels. but this is most likely to be necessary in an economic and monetary union. only if the citizens of europe see that we are acting effectively now, that we are learning from the mistakes we have made, will we overcome this loss of confidence that we are currently experiencing. i can assure you that my group will support the ferreira report tomorrow.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner rehn, perhaps it was not clear at the time of the introduction of the euro what the loss of monetary policy meant for a state. we are seeing the dramatic consequences of this in greece today. the euro area was not and has not become an optimal monetary area, and a country hit by the crisis has greater difficulty in getting back on its feet and risks dragging other states down the same gulf. since maastricht, certain criteria have been in place to prevent dangerous situations and we have seen how they have failed miserably. greece did not meet any criteria in 1999 and was in the euro only two years later. portugal was also the first country to receive warnings in 2002 about its deficit situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are therefore waiting to see whether these new measures are less useful. i think that this is the last chance before the final failure of the community's economic policy is declared.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are witnessing a paradox. the package which should correct and prevent imbalances and asymmetries is based on imbalance and asymmetry. it is like a body resting on two legs, but one is much taller and more developed than the other. the leg of control over budgetary policies appears muscular and articulated, that of development policies, which should provide long-term momentum and impetus, appears fragile and weak. i think that this inharmonious result in the final structure of the package depends on an interpretation which differentiates us on the origins and nature of the crisis: the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community, which is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. the risk is to mistake cause for effect. we all want accountability in the control of public finances, but debt reduction is not a sufficient objective to boost growth and competitiveness. the emphasis, the emphasis of the measures is on procedures and sanctions, less - much less, too little - on investment and a strategy for sustainable growth, which europe should promote and implement. we know that our actions can lead, even unintentionally, to very different and even opposite results from those we want to achieve. it's the heterogeneity of ends. i'm afraid this package has that problem in it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this debate is an opportunity to discuss a new governance agreement in the context of the european union, to send a strong and unified message, to restore solidarity to the european union and to avoid speculation. it is a fact that in the past years we have weakened the stability and growth pact. another indisputable fact is that it was a mistake and we are paying the consequences. we must return to the rules of budgetary discipline, and that is the real core, the real debate we must have among ourselves. the procedures must be automated to avoid the experience of the old stability and growth pact. i believe that there is only one way out of the crisis, and there are no shortcuts. the answer lies in national policies, in the implementation of planned and agreed commitments. solidarity between the countries of the union must be accompanied by a sense of responsibility and in accordance with the rules which the states cannot and must not deliberately violate. in all this, of course, we cannot forget the importance of growth, which brings tax revenues, and of structural reforms to help countries in difficulty get back on their feet. structural reforms aimed at boosting the competitiveness of economies and growth potential must be the priority of the political agenda. i do not agree with those who say that the new stability and growth pact will prevent the states from developing. instead, it will push them to cut the branches, to modernize them, to make those structural reforms that are the fuel to get the economy going again. thanks to these and to strict compliance with the guidelines set out in the new stability and growth pact, i am confident that the european union will become stronger and be able to face the new challenges without aid policies and, even worse, without outdated slogans that do nothing but harm, especially the weakest sections of society.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fukushima disaster has raised the issue of nuclear safety again. the problem of radioactive waste must be addressed and solved. for the sake of brevity, i would like to give priority to two questions. the first is the ban on waste transfer. each state must be able to fulfil its responsibilities and, above all, the principle that the polluter pays is right. the second question concerns safety, and in particular the safety and health of workers. this is a point which i consider very important and which needs to be given confidence. we need to give citizens confidence by providing maximum transparency and above all - and i say above all - maximum security in this matter.
in writing. as the shadow rapporteur for opinions in the envi committee and having therefore followed the subject particularly closely, i would like to congratulate mr cizelj on the excellent work he has done. the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is the result of work which, despite the difficulties of the negotiations, due also to the particular and delicate international context, has succeeded in drawing up a coherent and harmonised legislative framework aimed at ensuring the safe management of this type of waste, irrespective of future applications and future developments for nuclear energy. i think that is the great strength of this proposal. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to ensure that the safety standards of the member states are maintained. greater attention to technical and scientific progress, also in the name of the principle of reversibility; increased attention to the protection of the environment and public health; the commitment to clarify responsibility in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle, transparency and the role of licensees.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to express my opposition to a unilateral increase in the european target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020 in the absence of a global climate agreement involving all the major emitters. it should be borne in mind that the european union is still the only area in the world to have adopted legally binding emission reduction targets. the immediate consequence is that european industry is exposed to strong competition from global competitors who are not subject to the same constraints. therefore, in my view, the priority for the union must first be to achieve the already very ambitious 20-20-20 targets set out in the climate and energy package. only then will we be able to define a community environmental policy which will enable european companies to remain globally competitive in order to support economic growth and, above all, job creation. i would like to conclude by sharing the concerns expressed by the representatives of the italian industrial system, which is not currently in a position to sign up to more ambitious commitments than those already agreed by the european council and reaffirmed by the european commission in the european emissions trading directive.
in writing. the 2050 roadmap assumed that achieving the 20% energy efficiency target would automatically allow for a 25% reduction in emissions, without changing the current regulatory framework. without an international agreement, unilateral increases in the emission reduction target could pose risks to the competitiveness of our industries and to growth and jobs in the eu. we should instead go down the road of energy saving and renewable energy. in this connection, i express my support for commissioner oettinger's new energy efficiency proposal which will certainly save money for citizens and businesses by helping them to manage their consumption. in discussing future eu climate policies, we cannot also ignore the new european and international energy landscape that has emerged as a result of the north african uprisings and the nuclear crisis. these factors will have a significant impact on energy costs over the medium term and will require an impact assessment on the current european environmental strategy. just think that the nuclear spill will force germany to increase its reliance on fossil fuels, increasing its ghg levels. it is therefore necessary to reorient our environmental policies by creating the necessary convergences with energy policies and by moving beyond traditional sectoral approaches.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the mandate for the trilogue the budgetary procedure enters its most concrete phase, the phase in which the budgetary authorities really start a discussion which can lead to useful, important results. and that is why, first of all, i hope that this trilogue is an opportunity to be seized, an opportunity not to be missed. we have started the budgetary procedure with great realism. the member states are currently implementing a difficult policy of consolidating their budgets, and these policies must be balanced with the need to combat the crisis and restart the economy and investment. that is why the european budget, with its unique capacity to add value to expenditure, investment and resources, can and must play a key role at this time, a key role for which it is crucial to start with the 2020 strategy. the 2020 strategy has been at the heart of this parliament's budgetary debate from the very beginning. the 2012 budget can and must be the first concrete step towards implementing this strategy, which is the instrument chosen to give our union a fresh start. in this sense, giving a financial dimension to the 2020 strategy puts our coherence and credibility at stake and at the centre. we cannot build such an ambitious strategy without getting it off the ground immediately, at a time when, as a tool for economic recovery, it is really crucial to make its full impact. so consistency, credibility and an ambitious 2020 strategy are also crucial, fundamental, if we are to ensure the stability within the european union that we need today, including with regard to our single currency. and then there are other facts, there are policies that become emergent. i am thinking of the democratic processes in the mediterranean area, of the need to ensure an external dimension to the european union, which can now really play a role and take back an important leadership. we must not forget that the budget is not just an instrument to be approved when the forecasts for the next year are being drawn up, but it is also an instrument which must be operational during the year. in this sense, not only the payment of payments for the coming year, but also the implementation of the 2011 budget currently under way is very delicate. coherence, credibility, the strong, decisive and uncertain use of the european budget as a key instrument to counter the crisis and to counterbalance the policies of consolidation of the states. these are all issues which we are seriously concerned about and which really need to give us back a fundamental role for the security of the european union, and which above all - and this is my main concern - urge us not to waste the opportunity of the trilogue, which can and must be a valuable opportunity for a practical and useful debate, which will lead us this year to a shared vision of the budgetary choices we are going to make. i think that the sharing of choices on the occasion of a crucial document such as the budget is another good sign of our ability to work within the union, which is particularly important at this time.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult economic and financial environment in europe has highlighted the weaknesses of individual member states struggling to avert the sovereign debt crisis. the crisis has led to a sharp fall in public investment in sectors key to boosting employment and growth. the 2020 strategy, which is at the heart of the 2012 draft budget, sets out the way to break this vicious circle. while acknowledging the due responsibility shown by the commission for the 2012 appropriations, i regret, as the rapporteur for the femm budget, the limited increase in programmes such as progress, responsible for implementing important initiatives in favour of young people, the fight against poverty and gender equality, and the daphne programme, responsible for policies to combat violence against women. in conclusion, therefore, i believe that a 2012 budget is needed that is able to respond more concretely to the challenges facing europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the task facing the three institutions involved in the budgetary procedure is not a simple one, and consists in identifying a level of resources which takes account of the commitments made in previous years and the challenges which the union is about to face, trying to find a balance between the needs of growth and development and the awareness of the need for responsible austerity. today parliament is preparing to vote on this important document which represents the mandate, that is to say a specific line for negotiations with the council. the epp wanted to enrich the document presented by the rapporteur, mrs balzani, whom i thank for her excellent work, by helping to underline the need for adequate resources to finance the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which is at the heart of the 2012 budget, and the key role of the community budget as a lever for the recovery of member states' policies. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, support for research, development, growth, innovation and jobs, and efforts to develop small and medium-sized enterprises are our priorities. i believe that investments in these sectors are the only way to bring europe out of the crisis. i am a supporter of the concept of european added value and we must realise this added value through the budget and financial planning. i think i have to make a specific point on the subject of surpluses. i am personally in favour of the request that the unspent funds remain in the union budget, but starting of course from the next multiannual financial framework, because at the moment there is no legal basis which would allow the union to retain these funds. the same applies to fines and interest on late payments. i would like to conclude by saying that we must avoid a repeat of what happened last december, and that we must try to find a balance with the member states at the trialogue next july, without sacrificing adequate funding for the strategic policies and priorities of european action, which are essential for the real relaunch of the union and for the 500 million european citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have a short comment in anticipation of our trilogue and in response to two specific questions, from mr capoulas santos and ms grelier, defending the food scheme for ‘most deprived persons’. they know what has happened: a court of justice ruling requiring that food covered by the scheme should come only from ‘stocks’ has resulted in a reduction of volume from eur 500 million to eur 113 million. therefore we need to find a solution, and probably a new legal basis for the scheme. my second brief comment is in response to mr bütikofer, who claims that we have not done enough to reflect energy priorities in the next budget. it has to be understood that in the current year – as a result of delay on investment projects, especially nabucco and the other projects with azerbaijan, and also of azerbaijan relaxing after winning the eurovision song contest – we have huge delays. unfortunately, this also affects programming for the next period in relation to major energy interconnectors. to all those who would like to cut the budget, my message is that among our legal obligations to make payments in 2012, we are required to make payments to greece and to some other countries that are in trouble. they need austerity but they also need investment, and our legal obligations are about investment – about structural funding for these countries for the next year.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this very interesting debate, which follows on from the one we also had in the specialised committees, shows that parliament is very much in agreement on the basic strategies. one of them, the most important point: the budget is undoubtedly the instrument, the only instrument, the most important instrument today for striking that delicate balance between consolidating public accounts and the need to support growth. the only real bulwark we have against the risk that consolidation will depress the european economy in a heavy and irreversible way. so it's a tool at the center of the scene. the european parliament is not asking for a generically ambitious budget, but for a strong instrument on those priorities which are now very clear, very clear. the 2020 strategy focuses on investing in jobs. we have again mentioned research, development, social cohesion and energy in this house today, all priorities on which the budgetary item is an important measure of the seriousness of our intentions. and the seriousness of our intentions means our strong institutional credibility. the budget, which is at the centre of the scene, is therefore a very important element today, because we have once again been reminded that it is the driving force behind the implementation of our commitments, and that is no small thing. the budget therefore becomes an important element in restoring stability to the european union and to our single currency. i hope, therefore, that in this trilogue, this climate of strong responsibility which we share - and this is the way it should be - will open up a calm, responsible and constructive negotiation for the future of our union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, cohesion policy has been enriched by the territorial dimension. this makes it all the more urgent to promote the mechanism of genuine participation. in order to make such involvement effective and efficient, it is essential to allow a more appropriate use of the instruments at our disposal. the report by mr vlasák, to whom i am grateful, on the urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy, expresses a very balanced view of the urban dimension in cohesion policy, taking account of all the positions expressed by the groups in the debate in the committee on regional development. about 73% of the total european population lives in urban areas. they generate 80% of the gross domestic product and consume up to 70% of the energy consumed in europe. their development is therefore directly linked to areas such as employment, social inclusion, environmental protection and the achievement of cohesion policy objectives in general. the argument put forward by mr vlasák, in view of the centrality of relaunching urban policy as a platform for the development of the eu 2020 strategy, is fully acceptable, without however neglecting rural and peri-urban areas. these are two priorities to which i would like to draw the commissioner's attention, in particular the promotion and enhancement of the system of multi-level governance and the synergy between the different funds, i.e. an integrated approach to funding. in relation to the first consideration, we have pointed out, from the overview we have given and the debate we have developed, that there is insufficient participation by regional and local authorities and civil society in the conception, implementation and development of regional programming, and hence in the use of the instruments of cohesion policy. on the other hand, we have pointed out the difficulties which arise from the rigidity of the funds. we have therefore asked and we are asking the commission to argue for greater flexibility in the funds and, in particular, for greater integration between the european rural development fund and the cohesion fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of cohesion policy which we are discussing today is very much to be welcomed. i would like to concentrate on three issues in these few remarks. firstly, because i consider cohesion policy to be one of the fundamental instruments for reducing imbalances within and between member states. it is therefore one of the fundamental policies to counter the long economic and financial crisis that has been with us for some years. secondly, i think it is a good idea to involve new regions and new citizens in cohesion policy. but it is good to discuss these issues with a clearer understanding of the cost of this new policy, what effects it will have on the overall cohesion policy and how we will allocate resources in the context of the reform of the financial perspective by 2020. finally, i think that the centrality of the urban question in the context of cohesion policy is decisive. it is important that we have made progress in this respect with the vlasák report, which i very much agree with, and i believe that this report will enable us both to define better the legal framework for urban issues and to introduce instruments such as municipal operational plans as operational plans which can give a new quality to cohesion policy.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic cohesion, like social and then territorial cohesion, has always been the fundamental principle for defining all the policies of the european union since the european union was born. it is therefore very important that these objectives be reaffirmed as they are in the texts we are commenting on, and it is right that the structural funds be revised and modified to give them greater effectiveness in the effects they are intended to produce. the european social fund is, in my view, a key instrument among these, and for a very simple reason: we are in an acute phase of the economic and social crisis which is not yet over and which is having the most serious effects on work and employment. it is very important that europe reaffirms its social model on the one hand and, on the other, reaffirms that work has an undisputed social value and that employment is one of the main reference points in the use of the resources that economic development should make available. the social fund must therefore be strengthened, its autonomy maintained and the resources available increased. knowledge is the focal point and the driving force behind any competitive model. all this will not be possible unless there is also a robust increase in the quality of work. that is why the european social fund is as valuable today as it was in the past and perhaps even more so.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the case is relatively complex, i just wanted to point out that while there is a request for authorisation to proceed against an alleged corrupt person there is no procedure against alleged corrupt persons.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my positive vote on this report because it sets out some fundamental elements for cohesion policy and for financing. in the meantime, the procedures for national funds must also be simplified and, secondly, sport and culture must also be included as an element of cohesion, which is absolutely important and decisive. the only possible negative aspect of this report is that it only envisages the three working languages - english, french and german - for the language in which the application must be accompanied in addition to the original language. i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the importance of this report, only 19 member states have reported on the basic indicators. this situation does not allow us to get a clear picture of the impact of cohesion policy at local level. i agree with the measures and good practices proposed by mr mikolášik, and i think it is particularly useful to propose greater application of the basic indicators and the preparation of reports on the results and synergies between national and european union policies. the organisation of public debates and consultations of interested parties together with the submission of reports to national parliaments for their opinions are further positive measures in this regard. we must make every effort to ensure that the funds allocated to cohesion policy in the next programming period are not reduced. that is why i have supported this report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only support the idea of creating cross-cutting multi-fund programmes, which clearly define their objectives and streamline the access mechanisms. i agree with professor barca's report that in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness and to operate in a more integrated way, a local development approach will have to be favoured. the urban dimension should be the focus of attention and coordination between the funds and the other financial instruments of the eib and the eif should be ensured. in a context of budgetary constraints, these instruments, combined with revolving funds, would allow, through a control of results, a multiplier effect of the resources allocated and an enlargement of the beneficiaries with a consequent increase in the results achieved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the reports, except for mr wortmann-kool's report, on which i abstained, despite my support for my group's amendments. i therefore did not vote in accordance with the overall indications of my group, because i believe that we are facing such great problems that we must now demonstrate the cohesion of the european institutions and our capacity to deal with the problems we face. and despite some excess timidity and some arrogance on the part of the council in dealing with the crisis, i believe that we must show this cohesion. i did not agree to the postponement either, because we are in a position to give urgent answers to our citizens in the face of this economic crisis, which is not only the result of financial speculation but also the result of our inability to deal with the problems of recovery and growth. we have a duty to restore europe's public finances and we have a duty to put in place responses which can only start with the involvement of business and the labour market, with different and more open rules to complete the single market and to better deal with the world market. that is why i voted in favour of the reports, with the exception of mr wortmann-kool.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on consumer rights put forward by the commission has the merit of combining the four previous directives on this subject into a single legislative instrument. i agree with the report's objectives: it is essential to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the 27 member states, while taking due account of the need for businesses, regardless of their size, to provide goods and services to european consumers without having to face unnecessary legal obstacles. at present, the elimination of legal fragmentation is a difficult achievement. the report by my colleague also rightly raises the question of whether full harmonization could have the opposite effect of what is expected. i voted in favour of the proposal because i am convinced that it would be useful to amend the commission's proposal, to achieve a minimum of harmonization and at the same time to guarantee a high level of service to consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two comments in the margins of the own-initiative report on the cap. the first is that the selling prices for agricultural products must be commensurate with the cost, the labour and the labour, but also with the cost of production, if we want the healthy products of european agriculture, traditional agriculture, which must be maintained, to reach the tables of european consumers. the second point concerns a signal to the competent european authorities: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the report of the italian carabinieri of the agricultural policy command on milk quotas? it is clear from this report that the milk production ceiling, which is the legal basis for the fines imposed on italian farmers, is not being respected because there was no such ceiling. this is a very serious matter, because these fines risk bringing thousands of farms in our region to their knees and bankruptcy. free the padua!
in writing. - mr president, i would like to express my pride at the broadly favourable opinion of the european parliament in support of the appointment of the new governor of the european central bank, mario draghi. the appointment will be confirmed tomorrow by the council of heads of state and government, but it is already a source of great prestige for italy, not only because of the very high professional profile, skills and experience in european economic affairs that draghi has, but also because his investiture for the next eight years has received the full support of all european leaders. i wish governor draghi a good job.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the candidature of mr mario draghi as next president of the european central bank, for his great competence and his progressive views on the governance of the global financial system. at the hearing held in the economic affairs committee last week he stressed that more european economic governance is now necessary and that under his presidency the ecb would keep on focusing primarily on the fight against inflation. for all these reasons i am proud to give him my full support.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian member of the european parliament i welcome the candidacy of mario draghi for the presidency of the european central bank. i followed your hearing in the european parliament on 14 june. his distinguished career, from academic posts to the highest levels of the global economic and financial field as chairman of the financial stability board makes him a top candidate for the post of chairman. at a particularly difficult time for europe, draghi will certainly be able to respond to the needs of the european financial system in ensuring financial stability and accompanying economic growth. his candidacy is an important political signal for italy, after the brilliant experience as director general of the treasury and governor of the bank of italy since 2006, a period in which he was able to relaunch the country in the european and international arena.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation, and my reasons go far beyond the nationality of the candidate. i do not think that italy, and not the eu, is the beneficiary of the appointment of professor draghi - indeed: italy is losing a very competent governor of the central bank who is very attentive to economic, monetary and real problems. we are talking about a person with an impeccable cv, with considerable international experience in public and private institutions, who has always demonstrated a very high degree of proactivity (as for example in the leadership of the "financial stability forum"). his publications indicate an academic profile certainly up to the task, and his experience in the monetary field dispels all doubts about his abilities. it is no coincidence that the consensus on this name is so unanimous: he has all the makings of a great president of the ecb. it faces very important challenges in the present times: so i send him a heartfelt "good luck!"
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the result achieved today by expressing a large majority of favourable opinions on the council's recommendation to appoint mario draghi as the next president of the european central bank. i believe it is an honour for our country to have such an illustrious representative at the head of a strategic institution such as the european central bank. this is an important recognition of the commitment and competence of a man who represents us and who will have the difficult and prestigious task of leading the ecb at a time, such as the present, when europe is facing the effects of a serious economic and financial crisis. i hope that the next european council will make his appointment official and that mario draghi himself will be able to lead the ecb for the next eight years, starting in november, with the high and undisputed professionalism that he has already shown in the past, accompanying the eu economy towards a recovery phase capable of ensuring stability and solidity for european finances.
in writing. - we welcome the appointment of dr mario draghi as the future president of the ecb, as he has demonstrated a professional profile worthy of the prestigious post and a long and recognised experience in the international financial and banking sector. we congratulate the former governor of the bank of italy on his candidacy and on having already demonstrated, during the hearing in the european parliament, his ability and potential to deal with the problems that will be presented to him. we believe that his appointment is a success for italy, which he will certainly be able to represent at a high level in one of the most prestigious european institutions. we wish him all the best for his work.
in writing. - after the brilliant hearing in parliament's committee on economic affairs, i am convinced that i shall be voting in favour of the appointment of mario draghi to the ecb. this vote confirms that, in this difficult time of crisis, the right person is being chosen with the best qualifications to lead the ecb. i am convinced that mario draghi will be able to fill this future role as president of the ecb as he has done in recent years at the bank of italy, making his wealth of experience and great competence available to europe. in expressing my satisfaction at the high level of development of what is an italian 'school of talents' - the bank of italy - i would like to emphasize once again the high technical profile of the next president of the ecb, mario draghi. i am sure that the council will confirm the positive vote of the european parliament, and as a member of the economic committee i assure mr draghi of my full readiness to work fruitfully with the ecb, particularly at this difficult time for the euro and for the eu.
in writing. - i can only be in favour of the choice to appoint mario draghi as the new president of the european central bank for a period of eight years starting next november. his cv demonstrates the very high professional and human profile of this candidate, who today represents one of the most distinguished italians in the world economic scene. at a difficult time like this, i think it is essential to have a top-level personality at the helm of the european central bank, and mario draghi represents this profile perfectly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs matera's report because the characteristics of the application submitted by belgium for the mobilisation of the egf correspond to the requirements for access to the fund. the eur 9 593 931 requested for the 2834 redundancies at general motors and four of its automotive suppliers during the four-month reference period (june to october 2010) will be used for the individual reintegration of these workers who lost their jobs as a result of the ongoing process of globalisation of world markets, and will in no way be paid to the company that made the redundancies.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for belgium because i believe that this instrument represents a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. as has been repeatedly stated, since 2006 the egf has provided concrete assistance to european workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 2834 redundancies, all of which were eligible for assistance from the fund, at general motors belgium and four of its suppliers, operating in the motor vehicle sector in the nuts ii region of antwerp, during the four-month reference period from 14 june to 14 october 2010, for a total amount of eur 9 593 931 financed.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, which particularly affected general motors belgium, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium. in this connection, particular reference was made to the unforeseen nature of redundancies and their impact on local, regional or national employment. we recall that the egf was created as a specific and distinct instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore justified to allocate a specific amount to avoid carrying out transfers from other budget lines, which could be detrimental to the achievement of the objectives of the various policies. we consider that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and recommend that it be approved with our favourable opinion. however, a revision of the egf regulation is still essential to deal with the problem of multinational companies whose restructuring or transfer causes redundancies and, consequently, the intervention of the adjustment fund.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are once again called upon to vote on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i say that unfortunately, because such an intervention presupposes a situation of serious difficulty. on the other hand, however, we must applaud this instrument, because it makes it possible to bring oxygen to situations of serious crisis which risk seriously endangering industrial sectors and above all the fate of many workers. i agree with the allocation and use of the fund, but this can only be a temporary measure which must be backed up by a long-term strategy to support the european economy so that it can keep pace with the globalised market we are living in.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 14 april 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of 2,834 redundant workers in the main establishment of general motors belgium and four of its suppliers in the automotive sector in antwerp. the commission's assessment was based on the following elements: the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade flows; the financial crisis; the unforeseen nature of the redundancies in question; the proof of the number of redundancies; an explanation of the unforeseen nature of such redundancies; the identification of firms which have made redundancies and of workers eligible for assistance; the territory concerned with the respective authorities and stakeholders; the impact of redundancies on local, regional or national employment; the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed. in order to ensure that these people are reintegrated into the labour market, i shall vote in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. − on 14 april 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the opinion delivered today concerns 2 834 redundancies, all of them eligible for assistance from the fund, in the main undertaking, general motors belgium, and four of its suppliers, operating in the motor vehicle sector. on the basis of the commission's assessment, the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and the authority has recommended that the budgetary authority approve it. parliament gave its favourable opinion today.
in writing. - mr casini's report addresses and contributes positively to the resolution of the problems connected with the interpretation and application of rule 51 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. i fully share mr casini's view that it was not enough to refer to the interpretation and the guidelines intended to facilitate its implementation. the conditions for the application of the procedure with joint committee meetings and joint voting, in particular the criteria of 'competence and high relevance' of the subject under discussion, are clear and are suitable for eliminating the legal uncertainties which have existed up to now. i congratulate you on the good work you have done and i hope that this report will facilitate the work of parliament by making greater use of this procedure.
in writing. - the report proposes to amend rule 51, after the conference of presidents had raised the question of the rules of procedure for joint meetings between committees. the report proposes that the rules of procedure be amended so that the conditions for the application of article 51 are also examined more closely and according to stricter criteria by the conference of presidents. the fact that joint meetings are held only on matters of major importance will ensure that there is no unfairly extensive application of a procedure which is by its nature extraordinary. i shall vote in favour of the casini report.
in writing. - we support this amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament which provides that the conference of presidents, in the case of a legislative question of major importance, may decide to apply a procedure with joint meetings of parliamentary committees and a joint vote. this is only the case, however, if the matter falls within the remit of several committees and if it is a matter of major importance. the amendment is intended to emphasise the exceptional nature of the procedure and is justified, inter alia, by the administrative and technical burden involved. we believe that this could facilitate, at an early stage, an exchange of views between the committees concerned and that it could also be useful in preparing the ground for votes in plenary in cases of greater importance.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr casini's report on the amendment of rule 51 of parliament's rules of procedure because that amendment is the result of a work of synthesis of the legislation which makes clearer the scope of article 51. the new text lightened one article by removing references to other articles and by regulating the practice whereby two committees can meet in joint session only on important issues which reflect common interests. the purpose of the amendment is therefore to create the possibility for the committees concerned to exchange arguments in order to prepare the ground for a debate. the joint committees thus become competent for this procedure on the merits within the meaning of the regulation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, to create the possibility for the committees concerned to exchange views at an early stage and to 'prepare the ground' in cases of major importance to the plenary. article 51 needs to be amended in order to: make the provision more legible and therefore more suitable for use; the commission has therefore decided to review the conditions for the application of the standard and to determine its legislative substance. to achieve these aims, the two conditions must be presented in a clear and immediately understandable manner. the matter must be dealt with by several committees and the practical consequences of its application must be determined in the light of the legislative procedure. the joint committees thus become 'committees responsible for the subject-matter' under the regulation. in order to amend rule 51 of parliament's rules of procedure, which concerns the procedures for joint meetings of committees, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the report supports the proposal to amend rule 51 of the rules of procedure with regard to the procedure with joint committee meetings. the textual conflicts in the article cannot be resolved by mere interpretation, given the importance of the procedural issue. the new wording sets out in a clear and immediately understandable way the conditions for holding joint meetings, and eliminates references to other rules of the rules of procedure. furthermore, the redefinition of those conditions is justified by the technical and administrative burden involved in such a procedure. finally, the commonly recognised objective of joint meetings of exchanging arguments and opinions in advance in order to 'prepare the ground' in plenary for matters of major importance can only be achieved if the committees remain jointly competent on the merits at all stages of the procedure until the adoption of the act.
in writing. - the report and the work of the legal affairs committee make it quite clear that there is no reason to believe that the romanian authorities are acting against mr severin with a view to persecution; the court of first instance held that, although the attitude of the fictitious consultancy agency raised doubts as to the correctness of the conduct of the information operators, the fact remains that the case in question does not appear to fall within the category of cases in which immunity can legitimately be invoked. i vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. the report by mr cadec concerns the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of seychelles. i supported this report because the ex post evaluation of the agreement shows that it is a way of strengthening the presence of the eu fleets in the region and has therefore been positive in terms of job creation. i have not only supported the agreement, but i have also wanted to support it because it makes a decisive contribution to stabilizing the european canned tuna market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document. the previous fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles, which expired in january 2011 and was renewed by the commission for a period of three years, has brought mutual benefits in terms of their respective interests in the tuna fisheries. the agreement has created 230 jobs on board vessels for the people of seychelles, 2900 jobs in seychelles and 760 jobs in europe in the supply chains of the sector. the extension of this agreement, which stabilizes the european canned tuna market, is useful, since it guarantees the presence of 60 vessels of the european tuna fleet on the spot with the possibility of creating jobs. it is also effective because it has given seychelles the tools to develop responsible fishing, increasing their capacity to manage stocks and monitor fisheries. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to continue the path of partnership agreements in this vital sector for the european economy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in today's vote we approved the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of seychelles. the first bilateral fisheries agreement was signed between the european union and the seychelles in 1987, while the partnership agreement has been in force since 2006. as is well known, the economy of seychelles is essentially based on tourism and fishing, with the fishing industry accounting for 15% of gdp and employing 17% of the local working population. i believe that the negotiations conducted by the european commission, which led to the renewal of the protocol to the partnership agreement, have resulted in the drafting of a mutually beneficial document, capable of improving the level of cooperation between the eu and seychelles and of promoting a partnership which will enable seychelles to implement a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fishery resources in its fishing zone.
in writing. the new fisheries agreement between the european community and the republic of seychelles will be valid for a period of three years and will facilitate job creation, sustainable exploitation of marine resources and responsible fishing, based on the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets of fishing vessels operating in the area. at the same time, it will promote a political dialogue on the necessary reforms in order to strengthen cooperation between the parties, supporting a partnership that allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources in the seychelles' fishing zone. but fisheries partnership agreements must not only be a legal way for european vessels to access the resources of third countries, they must also be a tool for promoting the sustainable exploitation of all marine resources. we believe it is of paramount importance to take account of the improvement of the procedures for the accounting of total catches and to ensure the integrity of the mechanisms with regard to the problem of corruption, by strengthening the responsibility of local government. the european union will receive regular reports on the implementation of the agreement to facilitate monitoring and promote transparency and consistency in development policies.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, on 17 january the protocol governing fisheries and the associated economic partnership between the eu and the seychelles expired. in order to allow european fishing vessels to continue fishing activities in the indian ocean area of the republic of seychelles, the european union has negotiated the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendations to the council for the conclusion of the new partnership agreement with the seychelles.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of a new protocol to the eu-seychelles partnership agreement is important for the economy and the development of the european fishing fleet. the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement which seek to strengthen cooperation between the eu and seychelles and to promote a partnership framework to facilitate the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone, in the interests of both parties. the new protocol provides for a financial contribution for a period of three years, providing for annual fishing authorizations in seychelles' waters for 48 purse seiners and 12 longliners. these opportunities can be increased. the new protocol covers a period of three years from the adoption of the council decision on the signing of the protocol and its provisional application and after the expiry of the protocol in force on 17 january 2011. for these reasons and in order to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of seychelles for the development and responsible exploitation of sustainable fisheries, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i believe that this partnership agreement is mutually beneficial for the fisheries sectors between the european union and seychelles. the old agreement has already created many jobs for the people of seychelles and in europe, as reflected in the supply chains in the sector. the agreement also provides for specific suspension clauses in the event of a violation of human rights by either party. much remains to be done, particularly with regard to piracy in the indian ocean, which is increasingly damaging tuna fishing in particular. but today's decision strengthens cooperation between the parties and promotes a partnership capable of developing sustainable fisheries and of using seychelles' resources in a balanced way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the project aims to consolidate the eu's role in the atlantic tuna sector by regulating the eu fleet's activities legally. given the importance of the tuna industry to the eu and to italy itself, the strengthening of the operational framework of the eu fleet in the gulf of guinea is of paramount importance. on the basis of the foregoing considerations, i have decided to express my support for this project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr capoulas santos. the conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements is intended to preserve and safeguard the fishing activities of the european fleet. in particular, extending this partnership agreement contributes to the sustainability of the eu atlantic tuna sector by establishing a stable legal framework. the agreement, which should be supported, provides for the embarkation on board of the 40 eu vessels operating in this geographical area of at least 20% of seamen originating from são tomé and príncipe or an acp country, and the possibility of an observer designated by the são tomé and príncipe ministry of fisheries. these partnership agreements therefore enable local people to work together, creating important jobs, and allow europe to be present in otherwise prohibited areas, so that it can develop 'good fishing' practices and monitor the presence and quantity of the fish stocks concerned.
in writing. the new fisheries agreement between the european community and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe will be valid for a period of three years and will strengthen the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources outside eu waters, while addressing environmental, social and economic issues. we support the reaffirmation of the exclusivity clause, which contains a more precise definition of the content of both the clause on suspension and revision of the payment of the financial compensation and the clause on suspension of the application of the protocol in certain circumstances. we therefore believe that the commission should forward to the european parliament the conclusions of the meetings and proceedings of the joint committee, as well as the sectoral fisheries programme referred to in the protocol and the results of the respective annual evaluations. it will also be required to submit to parliament and the council, before the opening of negotiations for its renewal, a report on its implementation and to facilitate the participation of parliament's representatives as observers at its meetings. finally, the commission and the council, within the framework of their respective powers, will be required to keep parliament informed at all stages of the procedure relating to the protocol and its possible renewal.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the protocol on the fisheries partnership between the eu and são tomé and príncipe expired on 31 may 2010. the new agreement was signed on 13 may and the council sent it to the european parliament for approval. fisheries partnership agreements aim to conserve and safeguard the fishing activities of european union vessels and to develop relations with third countries in order to strengthen the exploitation of resources outside eu waters. i voted in favour of the recommendation to the council to express parliament's favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement in question.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this proposal concerns the conclusion of a new protocol to a partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe. the main objective is to define the fishing opportunities available to eu vessels on the basis of the available surplus, as well as the financial contribution due separately for access rights and sectoral support. the commission will be able to use 28 tuna seiners and 12 surface longliners. in the light of the annual assessments of the situation of fish stocks, fishing opportunities may be adjusted more or less, resulting in a proportionate review of the financial contribution. the annual financial contribution shall be equal to eur 682 500. the total amount of the annual financial contribution will be increased by eur 65 for each additional tonne caught where the total quantity of catches by eu vessels exceeds 7 000 tonnes per year. the agreement is for a period of three years. for these reasons and in order to consolidate the sustainability of the eu tuna sector, the commission has decided to extend the current fishing season to the following year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the proposal is in the interests of both parties in principle. the partnership agreement can help to consolidate the sustainability of the eu atlantic tuna sector by establishing a stable medium-term legal framework for the union's vessels and dependent sectors, and by helping to preserve the continuity of the fisheries areas covered by agreements in the gulf of guinea. it is, however, desirable that the joint committee should meet more frequently in the future and that representatives of the european parliament should also be allowed to participate in it as observers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure to extend the existing agreement between the european union and the principality of andorra to customs security measures. the need for this measure has grown over the last few years, as the principality of andorra has become a hub for the illicit trafficking of products, especially cigarettes, which are then introduced into the trade network of the member states of the union. it is essential that the union and the principality itself define a framework for cooperation in the field of customs security. taking into account that the protection of border security has always been a key aspect of the political ideology of the northern league, i can only approve the measure in question.
in writing. − we believe that the conclusion of this protocol between the european union and the principality of andorra, extending customs security measures, will ensure the smooth flow of trade between the two parties, while respecting a high level of customs security, and will provide for a set of rules to ensure that the agreement and the eu acquis remain aligned. we therefore gave our favourable opinion that parliament should give its consent. we do, however, believe that the commission should inform parliament of the conclusions of the meetings and the work of the joint committee and of the results of the periodic evaluations, and should also undertake to report on the implementation of the agreement. given the extensive but fragmented relations between the european union and the principality of andorra, we recommend that an analysis be made as soon as possible of the possibilities and modalities of its possible gradual integration into the internal market. this will be necessary to ensure that trade between the two parties is carried out smoothly, while maintaining a high level of security. finally, we are proposing to abolish the obligation to declare goods in advance, provided that the european union and andorra guarantee an equivalent level of security in their respective territories as provided for in the respective acquis.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr moreira's report on customs security measures because i think it is important that there should be clearly defined rules on trade in a country which, although not part of the european union, is an enclave within it and therefore perfectly integrated in trade. the protocol is intended to strengthen customs security measures for goods imported and exported from countries outside the eu. the control requires that traders provide specific information at the time of trading operations, while ensuring the right balance between speed and security of trade flows.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, for the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the principality of andorra extending to customs security measures, so far the agreement appears to be in the form of an exchange of letters between the european economic community and the principality of andorra concluded on 28 june 1990. the agreement was the basis for the customs union between the two parties. the current arrangement on customs security measures will be added to the 1990 agreement in the form of a new title ii bis and, unlike customs union, will apply to agricultural products. the community customs code is, in principle, applicable to trade with all third countries. it nevertheless allows for different standards to be set where specific safety measures are provided for in international agreements. the commission shall be empowered to: taking into account changes in the relevant eu customs acquis, the proposal establishes a special regime between the eu and andorra to ensure that trade between the two parties is smooth while maintaining a high level of security. for these reasons and in order to increase trade between the eu and the principality of andorra, i am voting in favour of the new customs measures on security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs ticau's report because canada is a priority country with which to conclude such an agreement, both being the world's leading aircraft manufacturers. this agreement will avoid the duplication of many procedures and allow for the acceptance of mutual certifications: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this recommendation concerns the agreement on aviation safety of 6 may 2009. in view of the climate of cooperation which has emerged in the agreement, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. − the 2009 civil aviation safety agreement is a first step towards the creation of a borderless airspace between the european union and canada. the agreement provides for joint inspections, exchange of safety data, enhanced regulatory cooperation and technical consultations to resolve issues before they become 'disputes' in order to maintain mutual trust in the systems. in addition, the creation of a joint committee and of various sectoral committees will save european and canadian companies millions of euros a year by mutually accepting certification results. the importing authorities will be able to issue their own certificates for products, parts or aircraft parts without having to repeat all the checks carried out by the exporting authority. the agreement will also benefit airlines, as it provides for the possibility of using the repair and maintenance services of the other party. not only will the competitiveness of the canadian and european markets be increased, but also global security will be improved. finally, we believe that this agreement is important for the establishment of international standards in the field of civil aviation safety and should serve as a starting point for future negotiations with other major aircraft manufacturers.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the ec-canada agreement on civil aviation safety because i believe that it represents a clear advantage for the european union in that it provides for the mutual recognition of documentation provided in all areas relating to aviation for all member states. the agreement provides for joint inspections, investigations, exchange of safety data, enhanced cooperation and technical consultations. mutual reliance on the certification systems of the other party means improving the security of the system, avoiding time wasted in repeating all the checks carried out by the exporting authority and ensuring benefits for airlines by the possibility to use the repair and maintenance services of the other party. this will increase the competitiveness and safety of the air transport markets.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the key objectives are to enable the eu and canada to rely on each other's certification systems. this will be achieved through a progressive alignment of the two sets of requirements and regulatory processes, systematic consultations between the parties to verify the continued suitability and capacity of the regulatory bodies concerned by the application of the agreement and the establishment of a joint committee to propose solutions to problems that may arise from its application. the agreement broadly follows the implementation of the bilateral basa agreements on aviation safety between the member states and canada. it is based on the confidence of each party in the system in force in the other party and on the comparison of regulatory differences. the agreement therefore lays down obligations and cooperation arrangements which enable the importing authority to issue its own certificate for aeronautical products, parts or appliances without having to repeat all the controls carried out by the exporting authority. in order to increase the competitiveness and security of the canadian and european markets and to have shorter and simpler product approval procedures, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - cohesion policy has a great potential today, more than ever, which should not be underestimated, to give new impetus to less developed regions which are characterised by permanent geographical or natural handicaps. it would be a grave sin to waste or leave unused the resources available, and then it is good to adopt as a matter of urgency a results-oriented approach by setting clear and measurable objectives and result indicators. the first step, which should apply to all community resources, is to simplify procedures and improve the flexibility of the allocation of funds by reducing bureaucratic barriers, excessive administrative costs and other obstacles to the achievement of policy objectives in the field of employment and the fight against poverty. let us not forget that cohesion policy is a long-term mechanism, so starting work on a solid basis, setting clear objectives and assigning specific competences to each level of governance are progress factors that will only give visibility to the results in the second part of the programming period.
in writing. − member states, as evidenced by data published in the national reports, are making progress towards the objectives of cohesion policy, despite a degree of heterogeneity between states and regions. i would also point out that cohesion policy is a long-term mechanism and that most of the results will only be visible at a later stage of the programming period. in my view, sound financial discipline and, above all, transparency in the allocation of funds are the fundamental preconditions for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy. the future architecture of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 will be at the heart of the political debate in the coming years. in the context of the negotiations for the future programming period, i believe that a strong european regional policy, adequately financed, is an essential condition for achieving the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the european union. therefore, the funds allocated to cohesion policy should not be subject to any reduction in the next programming period. in addition, simplification of the management and implementation of cohesion policy is essential to avoid funds being left unused due to overly complex rules and procedures.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution on the 2010 report on the implementation of the programmes relating to cohesion policy 2007-2013 contains points which are contrary to the principles of our policy and cannot therefore be supported. in particular, the motion calls for the provision of more and easier services for the roma community, which the motion calls 'marginalized'. the lega nord has always stressed that the roma minority cannot be considered as a victim of any social marginalization, as it is this minority itself that refuses integration into our society. i therefore believe that the present motion, which regards the roma as victims of marginalisation and calls for their preferential treatment on the basis of this alleged marginalisation, cannot be adopted. my vote is against it.
in writing. − cohesion policy is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and therefore greater attention should be paid to the coordination of activities between the european union and the member states, which depend on this area. that is why i voted in favour of this document. the economic crisis, as well as the policy reform for the period 2007-2013, have led to a slowdown in european action. in order to benefit fully from the potential offered by cohesion policy - as the rapporteur has clearly shown - more decisive efforts must be made to reduce the gap between the developed and the less developed regions of the european area. i believe that this can be achieved by increasing the funds allocated to cohesion policy and by increasing control over the projects to be approved and the way the funds are invested.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy has always been an essential element of the eu's economic recovery plan, and the role of the structural funds has been clearly evident to all. in particular, for small enterprises, as agents of development on the ground, cohesion measures aimed at supporting regional labour markets, reducing gender segregation and inequalities, encouraging interinstitutional dialogue, and improving infrastructure and services for disadvantaged micro-regions with high concentrations of socially marginalised groups have been promoted. these are just some of the many measures which are specific and necessary to maintain the balances which are essential for the regions. my support for this report is in recognition of the excellent work done by mr mikolášik and in the hope that cohesion policy will continue its path of aggregation and development of the territories and the european economy in the next programming period.
in writing. − this strategic report is a new element of cohesion policy. it provides timely evidence of progress in implementation across the eu27 and promotes transparency of actions through integration with community priorities. the progress made by member states can be considered reasonable in the context of a serious deterioration of the socioeconomic situation due to the global crisis and the policy reform for the period 2007-2013. in many respects, there is still a clear gap between european regions. progress differs significantly between countries and themes: some strategic areas face particular delays in project selection. the areas of greatest concern, where a thorough analysis of the reasons for delays should be carried out, are: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. additional efforts are therefore needed to avoid excessive delays, strengthen implementation and ensure greater financial discipline. cohesion policy continues to prove its importance as a major contribution to improving the socioeconomic environment. the key preconditions for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy are sound financial discipline and transparency in the allocation of funds.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is a key pillar of socioeconomic development, member states have welcomed the new requirements and are rapidly implementing eu directives, making good progress towards the objectives of cohesion policy. that is what the report on the report on 2010 shows, and so, wishing to continue along this path, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 cohesion policy programmes. the report also makes proposals and recommendations for greater transparency and flexibility in the allocation and use of european funds.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this report analyses whether the legislation has been properly applied by the member states and how they have understood and followed the community strategic guidelines in implementing their national strategic frameworks and operational programmes. the report was drawn up mainly on the basis of the following two documents: the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council and the court of auditors entitled 'cohesion policy: strategic report 2010 on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programmes' and the commission staff working document accompanying the communication. the main evaluations were on programme implementation, but taking into account differences of several months in the benchmarking, which could affect the volume of grants awarded to a particular sector, and on strategic reports, which provide timely evidence of progress in implementation across europe, providing the basis for high-level debate, peer review, policy learning and an incentive to improve the quality of performance, although there are some limitations in these reports. in order to ensure that there is more publicity at the presentation of the results, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the report on the european urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy stresses the fact that, further to the significant contribution of cohesion policy interventions to the development of urban areas, a range of other eu policies (such as environment, transport and energy) have a strong impact on urban development. for this reason the commission should proceed with a territorial impact assessment of sectoral policies to enhance an effective eu urban agenda. the report also underlines that one of the weaknesses of the lisbon strategy was the lack of well-functioning multi-level governance and the insufficient involvement of regional, local authorities and civil society in the design, implementation, communication and evaluation stages of the strategy. taking this lack into account, it is imperative to improve the governance system for the eu2020 strategy, with greater integration of stakeholders at all stages.
in writing. − cities are the hub of social and economic life and have a fundamental capacity for social integration, as they ensure the preservation of cultural diversity on the one hand and maintain a permanent link between the centre and the peripheries on the other. that is why i am in favour of the proposal to extend the funds for urban areas. i also agree with the idea that new investment should not be confined to the economic sphere and specific sectors, but that projects should also be implemented with a greater focus on social cohesion and integration of the parties. to this end, it is essential to pursue projects that are sustainable in terms of cost and resources and flexible, as each city is different and deserves solutions that best suit its needs. the development objectives of a european agenda must therefore be aimed at improving social cohesion in urban areas, including through economic progress but not only; implement a well-coordinated policy at both european and local levels, involving local elected bodies in the strategic decision-making process; to raise funds and incentivise investment to implement new projects instead of creating projects to obtain funding.
in writing. − urban areas, home to 73% of europe's population and generating around 80% of gdp, are the union's major centres of innovation, culture and growth. however, the urban dimension has not been sufficiently recognised. this is why it is important that parliament proposes to strengthen the european urban agenda within the framework of eu policies, by strengthening the contribution of cohesion policy to urban development and by involving local political actors more. the urban dimension of cohesion policy should be geared towards supporting the development of basic physical infrastructure, the modernisation of the economic, social and environmental characteristics of cities, urban redevelopment and the promotion of social innovation in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. this requires direct participation of local authorities and civil society, involving city politicians in strategic planning and in the definition and negotiation of partnership contracts. in this context, the call on the commission to promote the training of city administrators and to set up an erasmus programme for local and regional elected officials is significant. we will be watching closely to see how the commission is able to take up the important proposals in the report, in the belief that a full recognition of the centrality of the urban dimension in eu policies is an indispensable condition for their success.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, which represents an important contribution to the european added value of cross-financing by the erdf and the esf in terms of increased flexibility for social inclusion projects and integrated urban development programmes. the existence of more flexible conditions for such cross-financing could, in my view, optimise the use of the plans or strategies in question by exploiting in an effective and efficient way the complementary synergies of these funds. often, especially in urban areas with problems of social exclusion or environmental pollution, esf resources could be used to support local projects to prevent exclusion implemented in a coordinated and joint manner by public authorities and private bodies forming part of a network of cities. i hope that today's vote will encourage better harmonisation of the rules on certain eu funds and programmes under which urban and local development projects are eligible for co-financing in order to reduce as much as possible the bureaucracy and delays in the implementation process.
in writing. − we believe that the main objective of the european urban agenda is to promote the development and upgrading of the quality of infrastructure and services in european cities. the integration process must therefore be properly assessed, including a list of strengths and weaknesses, before further measures are taken. this should lead to a list of recommendations or standards for more formal local involvement in future policy development and implementation. the development of the urban agenda must not therefore be a one-way process but must have an organic dimension, with a bottom-up approach. it is therefore essential that cities have their voices heard and are listened to at eu level. we also believe that cities should be given sufficient flexibility to use the funds for their actual priorities. regional, national and eu funding opportunities should be coordinated to cover the full range of specific needs. finally, we believe that the future cohesion policy must become an effective policy with high added value for the cities of the european union.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, european cities are the economic, innovation and employment centres of the union, but they face a number of challenges. the trend towards suburban expansion, the concentration of marginalization and unemployment in urban peripheries, the increase in congestion and other problems of similar complexity require responses in the areas of transport, housing, and education and employment systems which must be adapted to local needs. european regional and cohesion policies are addressing these challenges. the main objective of the enhanced urban agenda is to promote the development and qualitative upgrading of the infrastructure and services of european cities. on the one hand, future measures must be closely linked to the general priorities of the union in order to justify the contribution of the european budget. the europe 2020 strategy, however, is mainly about trends for the future. overcoming the current disparities between european cities is equally important and should be reflected in the priorities of future cohesion policy. in the light of the experience of the lisbon strategy, the development of the urban agenda should not be a one-way process but should have an organic dimension, with a bottom-up approach. i am voting in favour of the proposal, so that there can be more and more development of european cities.
in writing. − europe is characterised by a great territorial diversity and polycentric development. in this context, european cities are the economic, innovation and employment centres of the union, but they face a number of challenges. i welcome the fact that, in the context of this urban agenda, the question of the definition of the concept of 'urban' is left to the member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. this will make it possible to tailor assistance more closely to the needs of each member state. that is why i have accepted and voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. − europe is characterised by a great territorial diversity. european cities are economic and innovation centres, although they face a number of challenges. i agree with the rapporteur that cohesion policy, including his european agenda, must aim to overcome territorial disparities by investing in smart urban development, in order to bring the infrastructure and services of cities to a high quality level. the european commission and the eib have developed three financial instruments, one of which is aimed at joint support for sustainable development in urban areas (the jessica project). in order to cover specific territorial needs, regional, national and european funding opportunities should be better coordinated.
in writing. − madam president, fostering the harmonious development of the european union is one of the objectives of cohesion policy, an indispensable tool for strengthening europe's economic, social and territorial reality, and an essential factor for achieving smart and inclusive growth as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy. i support this report because i believe that territorial cohesion should be adequately supported by more structural funds, and it is therefore right that the share of objective 3 should be increased from the current 2.5% to 7%, also taking into account the fact that some 37.5% of the european population live in border regions. the allocation of more resources would mean, firstly, investing in the transeuropean transport networks (tens), the modernisation of which is an urgent priority, and, secondly, reducing the physical, cultural, administrative and regulatory obstacles that hamper cooperation and territorial cohesion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it stresses that european territorial cooperation, with its significant contribution to the multi-level governance model, is one of the pillars of the cohesion policy. considering that territorial cooperation has proved its effectiveness in promoting the harmonious development of the union as a whole, it is now fundamental to increase its budget from the present 2.5% to at least the 7% of the overall cohesion policy resources for the next programming period.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report which stresses the benefits of increased cooperation between neighbouring regions belonging to different member states. i support the transformation of the objective of territorial cooperation into one of the pillars of community cohesion policy, since it is necessary, in order to strengthen synergies between neighbouring territories which naturally share the same needs and problems, to improve capacities and increase the means of political, economic and administrative exchange between neighbouring regions. i also welcome the report's suggestion that the community's financial commitment to this pillar of cohesion policy should be increased.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on territorial, crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation. i share the rapporteur's view that it is important to increase cooperation between the political actors in order to develop and implement more ambitious projects which are of benefit to all citizens. it is well known that the people living in border areas are the most deprived of infrastructure, and for this reason the involvement of all the parties concerned could lead to the needs of all the people being met, even those farthest from the centre of europe. this requires more strategic programming and collaboration at governance level to make certain funding programmes easier to use; the commission has also proposed a more comprehensive control system to ensure greater clarity and traceability of the funds used. in this context, i share the commission's view that it is appropriate to make all these instruments more visible: only by better publicising these measures can the parties concerned move in clear terms.
in writing. - the issue of territorial cooperation is certainly one of the most important for the european union today. the rapprochement of countries and the ever closer link between peoples is more necessary than ever, especially considering that 37.5% of the european population live in border regions. that said, territorial cooperation is therefore fundamental from several points of view. on the one hand, it would effectively promote the deepening of the internal market by helping to remove the physical and cultural barriers which are holding it back; the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and the environment in the context of the european union's policy on the environment. i agree with the provision for more funds to support this policy, particularly as regards the allocation of a higher percentage of the budget to interregional cooperation. another strength highlighted by the report is the establishment of territorial cooperation groups (tegs). i believe that these groups can have a positive effect, both from the point of view of governance, as it would be a cross-border governance that guarantees ownership of the different policies at regional and local level, and from the point of view of social cohesion, as it offers the best potential to bring together the different linguistic and cultural communities.
in writing. − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the instrument of territorial cooperation, as also emphasised in the europe 2020 strategy, plays a key role in deepening the internal market and promoting european integration in the various sectoral policies of the eu. i voted in favour of this report so that these objectives can become a reality in the near future, stimulating harmonious growth not only in the various sectors but also in the european areas which are often characterized by disparities in the levels of territorial development. to this end, resources are needed, to be allocated on the basis of harmonised criteria, but also effective synergy between the crossborder and transnational chapters, precisely to coordinate local needs with those with a wider scope of action. i am convinced that the eu's enormous cultural, historical and linguistic heritage must be made known by overcoming physical and territorial barriers: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in writing. − the general structural funds regulation and the entry into force of the lisbon treaty have considerably strengthened the importance of territorial cooperation, making it one of the three pillars of the european union's cohesion policy. it must remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers and reduce the 'border effect' between territories and regions, so that they can respond jointly to common challenges, whether territorial, global, economic or societal. we hope that cooperation actions will be coordinated at all levels of governance, in combination with a europe 2020 strategy adapted to the needs of the territories and with other existing territorial strategies. in order to implement the principle of territorial cohesion effectively and to increase the european added value of the funding allocated under the convergence and competitiveness and employment objectives, we also believe that there should be greater complementarity between the territorial cooperation objective and the mainstream. we support the idea, at the beginning of the programming period, of using a 'territorial' approach to direct 'convergence' and 'competitiveness and employment' appropriations towards a number of priority projects, such as the trans-european transport networks, previously defined and agreed with the programme partners, in compliance with the basic principles of multi-level governance and european partnership.
in writing. - the future agenda for crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation is of strategic importance for defining the objectives and the way to achieve them for each of europe's territorial realities. territorial cooperation is an added value that creates the basis for exploiting the full potential of a region and increasing its competitiveness. i voted in favour of the report because it is important to define objectives to ensure that the funding for cooperation programmes is allocated appropriately, and that the needs of each area are fully met by involving the most important regional projects.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the general regulation on the structural funds and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon have considerably increased the importance of territorial cooperation over the last five years. the 2007-13 financial framework has made the territorial cooperation objective one of the three pillars of the european union's cohesion policy, succeeding the interreg community initiative. subsequently, 'territorial cohesion' became one of the three components of cohesion policy in article 174 of the treaty, alongside the economic and social components, as it is one of the eu's main priorities. it aims to remove physical, administrative and regulatory obstacles and to mitigate the 'border effect' between territories and regions, so as to enable them to respond jointly to common challenges, whether territorial, global, economic or societal. objective 3 allows for complex and multidimensional cooperation involving partners from different member states. this requires simplification of the rules on auditing and control. in order to make territorial cooperation the symbolic personification of the eu for all citizens and to familiarize policy-makers and officials with the practical aspects of territorial cooperation relevant to their work, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i consider 'territorial cooperation' to be very important, since it aims to remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers between territories, mitigating the 'border' effect between regions and promoting harmonious development. this new approach will also be relevant for mountain regions, which can play a leading role in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, achieving these objectives will require simplifying territorial cooperation programmes and better involving the public and local authorities, encouraging better communication through a broad media awareness campaign.
in writing. − territorial cooperation is one of the pillars of the european union's cohesion policy, which aims to remove administrative and regulatory barriers between territories and regions in order to promote harmonious development that responds jointly to common challenges. it is important, in the logic of the europe 2020 strategy, to allocate funds better, so as to respond adequately to the needs and specificities of european territories. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mrs sanchez-schmid. the report highlights the added value of european territorial cooperation and its potential for promoting competitiveness. while maintaining the current structure of objective 3, the report proposes an increase in funding and highlights the specific needs of the people in the border areas. a strategic approach and a targeted response to the needs and specificities of each area are ensured by a distribution of funding which takes place, for each territorial cooperation programme, on the basis of harmonised criteria.
in writing. − the european parliament has reiterated in several resolutions the need for an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve optimal results for growth and development in the european union. the most determined attempt to coordinate efforts within the framework of european programmes and funds arises, in my view, from the post-world crisis phase into which europe has entered. it is clear that in future the need to consolidate budgets will lead us to try to make the most of the european funds available. i believe that the difficult historical moment europe has been going through offers an opportunity to exploit the negotiating phase on the next multiannual financial framework to achieve greater synergies from european programmes and funds. in particular, the experience of recent years clearly shows that erdf financing of economic interventions - such as for innovation, research, the environment, etc. - can be improved in terms of effectiveness if closely coordinated and integrated with interventions undertaken by the european social fund. finally, i renew my call on the commission to promote a culture based on an approach to simplifying the administration of european funds.
in writing. - i can only support this report with a favourable vote. at a time like the present, when the economic and financial crisis is imposing greater spending rigor, transparency and innovative and secure finance, in the face of ever-smaller resources and ever-greater social needs, the search for efficiency in the use of the structural funds is not only an objective but also a moral duty for all managers and above all for this europe, perceived by its citizens as an entity increasingly abstract and distant from real needs.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, economic, social and territorial cohesion policy is one of the fundamental pillars of an eu that is concerned not only with promoting and enhancing excellence by encouraging innovation, but also with creating convergence and reducing the gap between the less developed and the more advanced regions. unitary programming was the most innovative element of the 2007-2013 period, leading regions and member states to take an integrated approach between territories and resources in strategic and operational programming. this important approach is, however, in many cases threatened by the strong autonomy and competition between the different managing authorities of each single fund programme, which, by failing to integrate effectively, put at serious risk not only the useful operational and intervention integration that could be achieved, but also the benefits and impact that interventions could create. in the next programming period, it may therefore be useful to make a virtuous recovery of multi-fund programmes, integrating the experience of unitary programming and promoting participatory and responsible management between the various actors in the government of territorial development. i think the report we have adopted is a good support for these objectives.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is one of the pillars of the eu's economic policy. it is a guarantee of support for the regions whose development is lagging behind and for the less-favoured groups, providing balancing elements in the social and territorial growth of the union. this is a path that means a great deal to the 27 member states, which are called upon to define, through the increasingly active involvement of the social partners, the strategic lines that guide the development of the territories. the my vote in favour of this report confirms my conviction that this is the objective, but also that it is aimed at the need to simplify the provisions at national and regional level in order to implement projects in the time allowed, to avoid red tape and to reduce administrative burdens by increasing their absorption capacity.
in writing. − the european union needs new synergies and an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve the best results for the growth and development of its territory. greater commitment is needed to an increasingly flexible regional policy, integrated with other instruments and programmes. we believe that erdf funding for innovation, research, environment and smes can only be more effective if it is closely coordinated and integrated with social action in general. that is the advantage of integrated planning. it is not possible to solve a complex problem by tackling it from one side only. a fragmented approach could lead to overlapping or even conflicting policies, contradictory public interventions or, worse, duplication of resources. we believe that the potential of the less developed regions can be further boosted by combining the planning of the structural funds and the cohesion fund and by improving their integration with the rural development fund and the fisheries fund. greater flexibility, a new multidisciplinary approach and simplification in management can be the keys to the success of our development and territorial cohesion policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the stavrakakis report because i believe that the various european funds available for the implementation of regional policies should be made more easily usable. i am referring in particular to the development of synergies for an integrated approach between the various sectoral policies in place in the field of regional policy as noted in the report. the current financial and economic crisis makes the need to achieve a greater impact on available funding even more pressing. the report suggests a single policy framework for the european regional development fund (erdf), the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd), the european social fund (esf) and the european fisheries fund (eff). ensuring a common approach to these different regional funds also avoids duplication and confusion for economic operators at regional and local level interested in european funding of a given project. a systematic and synergistic approach between the different european regional funds also contributes to the objectives of cohesion policy and thus to reducing development disparities between european regions and facilitating social inclusion.
in writing. − european cohesion policy is and will remain one of the cornerstones of the european union's tangible activity in the union's territories, as well as the largest source of investment in the real economy, which can help europe and its regions to recover from the crisis and return to competitiveness. the erdf and the other structural funds have done a great deal, but they can and must do more and better for the european union. it is in this spirit that i share the outline and structure of the report by my colleague, to whom i express my support. in particular, i share the suggestions and proposals that the honourable member is making to make the use of eu funds more efficient. i hope that the european commission, especially in view of the new financial perspective 2014/2020, will take account of the request made by the european parliament.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the reform of structural policy for the 2007-2013 programming period has led to the separation of the rural development fund from the general framework of the structural funds. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the effectiveness of rural development policies requires close coordination of the implementation of measures under the eafrd as well as regional policy instruments. a single strategic framework is needed for the european regional development fund (erdf), the cohesion fund, the european social fund (esf), the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european fisheries fund (eff) in order to ensure a common approach and to increase synergies between all the financing instruments mentioned. the objective of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities between regions and promote social inclusion for balanced and harmonious development. i would like to see greater coordination between the funds and the involvement of regional and local authorities in the preparation and implementation of the partnership agreement.
in writing. - economic, social and territorial cohesion are fundamental principles for the definition of all the policies and actions of the european union. the rapporteur's view is that the economic crisis will force us to be more innovative and to try to make the most of the available funding. innovation means creating synergies and an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies in order to achieve optimal results for growth and development in the territory. the rapporteur's view that synergies and coordination do not imply universal solutions but require close strategic coordination between the instruments, policies and actors involved in order to implement carefully designed interventions and programmes, which take account of the specific territorial characteristics and comparative advantages or peculiarities of each region within an integrated approach based on knowledge of the territory, is particularly welcome.
in writing. the report on 'making the erdf and other structural funds more effective' was voted on today at the european parliament's plenary session in brussels. the resolution adopted by the regi committee proposes to create, as from the next programming period after 2013, a single strategic framework to ensure a common approach and to exploit synergies between all actions contributing to the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy, as defined by the treaties and financed by the erdf, the cohesion fund, the esf, the eafrd and the eff. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the report by mr stavrakakis calls for rural development measures under the eafrd and sustainable development measures for fisheries areas, undertaken with the support of the eff, to be integrated into a single framework with the other structural funds, and for coordination to be strengthened also between the instruments of cohesion policy as such and the activities of the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme.
in writing. − cohesion policy aims at sustainable and inclusive economic growth that is evenly distributed across territory, reducing disparities between regions. in order to achieve greater synergy, a common strategic framework should be adopted to strengthen the integration of european policies for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it is clear that integrated planning makes it possible to use the structural funds in a way that respects the objectives of european cohesion policy. one of the objectives to be achieved is the redistribution of european resources not used in some regions to the more virtuous ones, but always within the same state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it insists on the fact that the framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances should complement a union strategy for growth and jobs aimed at boosting the union’s competitiveness and social stability. the text also clearly calls on the commission to have a stronger and more independent role in the enhanced surveillance procedure, missions, recommendations and warnings.
in writing. - the impossibility of assessing with certainty the impact of the directives presented in this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances has led me to abstain. the gravity of the economic collapse in greece, together with the risk that a similar crisis will affect many other member states, certainly calls for the urgent planning of a strategy to prevent a repetition of such catastrophes. but on the other hand, this strategy must not result in the indiscriminate interference of the eu's central authority in the economies of individual member states. the safeguarding of national competences and freedoms is a key element in ensuring the proper functioning of the eu and cannot therefore be sacrificed even in the face of contingencies such as the greek crisis.
in writing. the ferreira report is part of the economic governance reform package, six reports which are the result of months of negotiation. the message from parliament was clear to everyone, and in particular to the council. i therefore hope that this package will be finally adopted before the summer recess and, above all, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the european union does not find itself unprepared, as in the past, to respond to the challenges to its stability. i voted in favour of the ferreira report because i think that the focus on the role of the scoreboard as a tool for identifying possible imbalances by means of specific criteria is a good basis for analysing the problem. in fact, i think that the first step in preventing future economic crises is a careful analysis of the risk factors which can lead to budgetary imbalances, and this report provides an adequate treatment of these. in addition, these criteria are shared and quantifiable, so that their consideration can be uniform at the european comparative level.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs ferreira's report because i believe that a coordinated surveillance mechanism at european level for the identification and prevention of macroeconomic imbalances is important, and that a procedure for correcting excessive imbalances is also important. the identification system, known as the 'alert mechanism', uses both a scoreboard of quantitative indicators and qualitative assessments. i believe that this scoreboard is important in order to have a general and overall assessment and for this reason i believe that it should be a flexible and malleable instrument so that it can be modified and adapted to different needs and situations, clearly providing a framework of legal certainty. i hope that parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the whole governance package as soon as possible, to send a strong and unified signal to citizens and markets and to stop speculation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the experience gained during the first decade of the functioning of economic and monetary union shows the clear need for an improved economic governance framework. the legislative proposals adopted by the commission on governance in september 2010 will need to be carefully examined and improved by parliament, given their crucial role for the future of the eu and in particular the euro area. strengthening economic governance must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of decisions taken, because economic governance cannot be dissociated from the regulation and supervision of financial markets. since the lisbon treaty, the council has required parliament's agreement to reach a final consensus, and this is the first time that parliament has acted in co-decision with the council on macroeconomic developments and fiscal discipline in the union. in order to improve parliament's understanding of the commission's proposals for the creation of a solid and coherent framework for the coming decades that ensures compatibility between fiscal discipline and economic growth, i am voting in favour of a broad reform of the governance framework on the basis of the community method.
in writing. - i believe that the package of measures contained in the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council can be effective in preventing macroeconomic imbalances, especially as regards the euro area. parliament also wants to improve the commission's proposals to create a solid and coherent regulatory framework capable of ensuring economic and employment growth in the coming decades. at a particularly difficult time for the eu, it is crucial to react by modifying, complementing and correcting the current model of sustainable growth, strengthening economic governance alongside the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken.
in writing. - i have chosen to abstain from voting on this report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1467/97 to speed up and clarify the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure. while it is necessary to review the relationship between the economies of the individual member states and between them and the union, especially in the light of events in greece and the fact that several other member states are showing signs of an imminent financial crisis of no less magnitude than the greek crisis, at the same time such a review cannot take place in the manner set out in this report. the latter aims to heal the vulnerability of national economies by strengthening, which i consider excessive, the eu's authority over the member states themselves, thus sacrificing the freedom and competence of the latter in financial matters. i cannot therefore express my approval of this report.
in writing. the feio report is part of the economic governance reform package, six reports which are the result of months of negotiation. the message from parliament was clear to everyone, and in particular to the council. i therefore hope that this package will be finally adopted before the summer recess and, above all, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the european union does not find itself unprepared, as in the past, to respond to the challenges to its stability. i voted in favour of the feio report in particular because i believe it accurately highlights the essential role which the european parliament must play in preventing future economic crises. the document reiterates the importance of the dialogue that parliament will have to establish with the representatives of the national parliaments in order to guarantee the democratic process when dealing with issues relating to the economic stability of the european union. the report also proposes a three-year period for adjusting the amount of debt, which i consider to be reasonable and respectable.
in writing. − this proposal concerns the acceleration and clarification of the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure. we believe that measures to ensure compliance with the rules on budgetary surveillance must always take account of the general objectives of the european union, in particular the requirements of promoting a high level of employment, ensuring adequate social protection and combating social exclusion. in monitoring compliance with the rules of budgetary discipline, account should also be taken of social recessions which may have an impact on the financial situation of the general government. we also believe that member states which are undertaking structural reforms to help maintain or create jobs and reduce poverty should be given the opportunity to deviate from their medium-term budgetary objectives. finally, we believe that strengthening economic governance must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of european governance, by strengthening the role of the european parliament in the whole process of surveillance. in addition, regular consultation of the social partners and greater involvement of national parliaments are also essential prerequisites for a credible and transparent monitoring framework.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr feio on his excellent report. i believe that the reduction of the debt-to-gdp ratio should proceed at an appropriate pace. in this sense, the difference between current government debt and the 60% reference value should be reduced by one twentieth per year. i welcome the amendment by my colleague to the commission's original proposal, which would have the reduction of 1/20th to be calculated on the basis of the average of the previous three years. i also agree that the monitoring of compliance with this condition will start three years after the closure of the excessive deficit procedures currently under way. in particular, i welcome the fact that in applying the public debt rule, the commission will have to take into account 'all other relevant factors', in particular, private debt, and other important factors which allow an overall assessment to be made. i hope that parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the whole governance package as soon as possible, to send a strong and unified signal to citizens and markets and to stop speculation.
in writing. − the legislative package presented by the commission in 2010 has as its main objective the relaunch of economic governance in the eu and the euro area. this is of strategic importance in a time of crisis such as the one we are going through. improve the development and growth plans of the member states, optimise the coordination of budgetary policies and strengthen the procedures for monitoring the national deficit and debt: these are just some of the priorities to be pursued. however, to achieve these results, it is necessary to go the way of full alignment with the plans for the recovery of employment and social protection policies, which are the key to a new model of sustainable growth.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. in particular, those directives propose to increase the degree of rigorous monitoring mechanisms in order to exclude the occurrence of new financial crises such as the greek crisis within the union. i believe that the solution to the economic difficulties of the member states will not come from the mere limitation of their potential and role, and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. the ford report is part of the economic governance reform package, six reports which are the result of months of negotiation. the message from parliament was clear to everyone, and in particular to the council. i therefore hope that this package will be finally adopted before the summer recess and, above all, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the european union does not find itself unprepared, as in the past, to respond to the challenges to its stability. i voted in favour of the ford report because i believe that harmonization of national systems by means of the definition of minimum requirements and, above all, of forecasting plans for public accounting systems is a fundamental criterion if we are to anticipate economic crises in the future. this should not, however, neglect the national nature of tax regulations, which imply some substantial differences, especially between countries in the euro area and countries outside it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive because i believe it has struck the right balance between the rigour required in this area and the discretion required by the economic situation. we must not forget that our emu has never been equalled in size, diversity and level of development. there is no manual for the perfect monetary union, nor can the knowledge gained so far be given absolute value, since the socioeconomic peculiarities of the euro area risk affecting the value of comparisons. the rapporteur has been very good at this, but it must be stressed that the maastricht criteria, which are an excellent reference point and the correct benchmark for creating the credibility that money needs, are not absolute values to be respected everywhere and at all times. there may be times when moving away from those limits is a risk worth taking, provided that any additional debt finances a recovery that cannot be delayed any further. i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done, and on the short time available, and i hope that the political and academic debate on these issues will be able to build on each other in order to guarantee the european citizens the well-being that monetary policy helps to create.
in writing. − the commission proposal aims to increase member states' compliance with the stability and growth pact, strengthen the coordination of their budgetary policies, introduce requirements for budgetary frameworks and specify the arrangements to ensure compliance with the rules in force. we welcome the proposal put forward to improve national tax frameworks and encourage member states to take timely tax decisions in the future. we also support the establishment of independent budget offices, national tax rules and a mandatory multiannual programming framework to increase economic and monetary stability. we believe that the requirements of national budgetary frameworks should not only ensure planning on the basis of realistic forecasts, but also ensure an appropriate level of attention to the sustainability of their social protection systems, including health and pension systems. finally, we believe that the requirements of national budgetary frameworks should be defined in such a way as to provide incentives and flexibility for member states to encourage public investment in development - for example in education and training - and thus contribute to the eu's employment and growth objectives.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the reform of the stability and growth pact, in the light of the various new features introduced and the increased cooperation between the european institutions, national parliaments and governments, mrs ford's report on the requirements for budgetary frameworks is fundamental, since it sets out the minimum requirements for public accounting systems, central and local government finance statistics and multiannual programming. the transposition of a directive does not necessarily require that its provisions be formally incorporated (for example by a law) into national legislation. an administrative act would also be appropriate, provided that it provides guarantees of transparency in the application of the directive. i hope this will speed up its implementation. i hope that parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the whole governance package as soon as possible, to send a strong and unified signal to citizens and markets and to stop speculation.
in writing. the goulard report is part of the economic governance reform package, six reports which are the result of months of negotiation. the message from parliament was clear to everyone, and in particular to the council. i therefore hope that this package will be finally adopted before the summer recess and, above all, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the european union does not find itself unprepared, as in the past, to respond to the challenges to its stability. i voted in favour of the goulard report because i believe it is important to set criteria but also and above all to define the mechanisms for monitoring those criteria. the report sets out the tasks and objectives to be pursued in the control and, where appropriate, sanctioning of the budgets of the various countries. on the other hand, incentives to comply with the criteria (so-called eurobonds) are also identified to complement the surveillance package.
in writing. - this opinion concerns the proposal for a regulation on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area. we believe that the application of budgetary surveillance must always be subordinated to the fundamental objectives of the european union and, in particular, to the requirements of article 9 of the tfeu relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion. it is also important that the enhanced surveillance framework be established in the context of the european semester for policy coordination. in order to strengthen budgetary surveillance, an enforcement system should be established which includes not only fines (sanctions) but also incentives, strengthening both the role of the european parliament and that of national parliaments. finally, we believe that the fines imposed on member states which do not comply with the recommendations addressed to them should be used to support the long-term investment and employment objectives of the european union.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, countries which do not comply with the preventive and corrective obligations of the csp, unless appropriate action is taken (on the adequacy of which the council will have to decide), may be subject, if they do not submit a rebalancing plan, to financial sanctions (equal to 0.1% of gdp). this is an important requirement for the new system of governance reform to be credible and effective. however, we must not be too rigid and too extreme, and we must also give incentives to the member states. in this sense i welcome the reference to the issue of eurosecurities. i have always been in favour of the issue of these european bonds, which i believe can bring added value, also from joint issuance and the strength of the euro. i hope that parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the whole governance package as soon as possible, to send a strong and unified signal to citizens and markets and to stop speculation.
in writing. − in a period of widespread economic crisis, such as the one we are experiencing, the need to effectively apply budgetary surveillance in the euro area is a priority. this must be done without changing the fundamental objectives of promoting a high level of employment, ensuring adequate social protection and intensifying the fight against social exclusion. in achieving this ambitious objective, the role of the european parliament and that of national parliaments becomes crucial and must therefore be strengthened throughout the monitoring process, both at national and international level.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 to strengthen the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies is part of a package on economic governance in the eu. this report, like the other reports in the package, deals directly with the recent financial crisis in greece and aims to create a regulatory framework capable of preventing a recurrence of similar crises. on the one hand, the need to intensify coordination and above all financial monitoring of the member states is obvious, given the gravity of the greek crisis and its repercussions on the other member states themselves. however, the directives proposed in the report also present some problematic aspects which should not be underestimated. the directives imply a substantial increase in the union's interference in the internal affairs of the member states' economies, with the prospect of a sharp decrease in the importance of the latter. the impossibility of excluding such a risk forces me to abstain from voting.
in writing. the wortmann-kool report is part of the economic governance reform package, six reports which are the result of months of negotiation. the message from parliament was clear to everyone, and in particular to the council. i therefore hope that this package will be finally adopted before the summer recess and, above all, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the european union does not find itself unprepared, as in the past, to respond to the challenges to its stability. i voted in favour of the wortmann-kool report in particular because i believe that the european union needs a solid basis to avoid crises like the one we have just experienced in the future. this basis is to be found in the creation of a system of parameters which will reform the stability and growth pact in a feasible way. this is because we must reach a new agreement which no longer obliges the states in difficulty to ask for derogations from existing agreements but which, through the renegotiation of the pact itself, allows new criteria to be established from which sustainable obligations and achievable objectives can emerge.
in writing. - europe needs stronger and more community-based economic governance. however, the package of measures voted on today unacceptably reflects the tendency of the current centre-right majority to see governance as pure austerity, reinforcing the preventive and corrective dimensions of the stability pact without outlining mechanisms and instruments to support investment and development. the reverse majority clause and the tightening of the parameters and sanctions cannot be accepted without a golden rule to protect the investments of the member states and without the eurobonds to finance european investments and at the same time guarantee sovereign debts. it is an inadequate recipe for dealing with the crisis and one that is bound to make it worse. that is why we are voting no to this and the other reports on fiscal surveillance, and we will be fighting for a different direction for european economic policy and at the same time for a strengthening of the community method and of the union's instruments and resources.
in writing. − we support the proposal to improve member states' compliance with the stability and growth pact and to encourage greater coordination of their budgetary policies. the regulation adopted today has been amended to ensure that member states adopt prudent budgetary policies in good times to build up the necessary reserves for more difficult periods. the eu's framework for budgetary surveillance and coordination of economic policies should be extended to include employment and social aspects. as for the member states' stability and convergence programmes, they should include information on the consistency of their budgetary objectives with the eu's strategy for growth and jobs, consulting the employment committee and the social protection committee in all monitoring procedures. we also believe that it is of the utmost importance that the strengthening of economic governance goes hand in hand with the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of european governance. in this respect, parliament should be regularly consulted and involved throughout the process, as should all the social partners, which is a prerequisite for a credible and transparent monitoring framework.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all congratulate mr corien on his work on the economic governance package. the stability and growth pact has been weakened, more serious and effective rules are needed and less discretion for the states. this is why prevention is crucial, because it allows us to prevent without having to act ex post. i agree with the report when it supports the commission's approach and extends its use of the reverse qualified majority voting mechanism to block a commission decision in the council. the aim of parliament must be to avoid the intergovernmental method, but it must think in a global perspective and, without watered down the rules, find solutions to ensure that the commission's independence is guaranteed, that parliament can be an actor and not just a spectator in the process, by finding a common agreement with the council. i hope that parliament will reach a final agreement and approve the whole governance package as soon as possible, in order to send a strong and unified signal to citizens and markets and to put an end to speculation.
in writing. - i believe that the stability and growth pact should be updated by improving the coordination of budgetary policies, so as to strengthen the surveillance of national budgets so that member states can make 'prudent' choices in times of favourable economic conditions, while setting aside the necessary reserves for periods of recession. only in this way will it be possible to ensure in practice a closer monitoring of the evolution of the debt and the deficit. finally, i welcome the proposal to introduce specific requirements for the framework lines of the member states' budgets, by strengthening the mechanisms that ensure that the euro area member states comply with the rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mrs wortmann-kool. the report supports the commission's approach by adding qualified majority voting in selected parts of the procedures. in the light of the economic dialogue between the european institutions and the member states, the national reform programmes will have to be drawn up by the individual states with a view to achieving the union's objectives. it is important to emphasize that the role of the european parliament, according to the text of the honourable member, will be implemented through hearings of the president of the eurogroup at the request of parliament.
in writing. − this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area aims to outline an action plan to prevent the occurrence of new financial crises such as the one that recently affected greece, thus joining a series of other reports presented in the same economic governance package. the overall objective of the report, namely to strengthen coordination between the eu economies, is certainly to be welcomed. however, the mechanisms by which this objective is to be achieved are not mutually agreeable. the report, like the other reports in the economic package, essentially proposes an intensification of central surveillance and control of the economies of the individual member states, which would gradually lead to a considerable weakening of the role and freedom of the national economies themselves. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. - the haglund report is part of the economic governance reform package, six reports which are the result of months of negotiation. the message from parliament was clear to everyone, and in particular to the council. i therefore hope that this package will be finally adopted before the summer recess and, above all, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, so that the european union does not find itself unprepared, as in the past, to respond to the challenges to its stability. in particular, i voted in favour of the haglund report because i believe that in future we must avoid making the same mistakes as we have in the past, and we must be able to prevent the possibility of some eurozone states violating the stability rules that will be adopted. i therefore believe that the system of annual fines for non-compliance with these rules as proposed in the report is a tool to be supported and above all to be strictly applied. moreover, the request for an extension of the reverse qualified majority voting mechanism is further proof of the will of this parliament to proceed and respond to the crisis.
in writing. − the commission's proposals for better economic governance are of crucial importance for the future of the european union and for the growth of the euro area states. it should be based on greater national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and a more robust framework for the surveillance of national economic policies at european level. in order to ensure the credibility and effectiveness of this oversight framework, it is necessary to strengthen it by introducing annual fines for non-compliance with the recommendations and the obligation to develop an appropriate corrective action plan. we believe that economic governance and national economic policies should be considered a common interest for all parties involved, with an emphasis on early detection and prevention of potentially harmful economic disparities. greater involvement of parliaments at both national and eu level is therefore needed. finally, we believe that a more active and independent role for the commission in the monitoring process, in terms of country-specific assessments, monitoring, missions, recommendations, warnings and sanctions, as well as greater transparency and accountability, aimed at strengthening peer support and pressure, and a more important role for the european parliament, albeit non-executive, in the monitoring process, are essential.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, economic governance and national economic policies should be of greater common interest to all parties involved. the commission's proposals for better economic governance are of crucial importance for the future of the european union. they can provide a starting point, but they need further strengthening. the following points need to be strengthened: increased attention to the prevention of unsustainable fiscal and macroeconomic policies; national reform programmes, stability and convergence programmes should be duly addressed at national level before being subject to eu surveillance; a more active and independent role for the commission in the surveillance procedure; enhanced independence of the commission from the council in relation to compliance with eu standards; the decision-making procedure based on reverse qualified majority voting in the council should be introduced in the preventive and corrective parts; enhanced transparency and accountability, aimed at strengthening peer support and pressure; the commission's role in the decisionmaking process should be strengthened, but its responsibility should also be increased, and parliament should have a more important, albeit non-executive, role in the monitoring process. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − to achieve better european economic governance, it is necessary to ensure, within these procedures, the consistency and timely approval of the package in all its parts. the need for a strengthened economic governance framework, capable of ensuring a more robust framework for the surveillance of national economic policies at european level, is now clear to all. this surveillance must also be extended to prevent harmful macroeconomic imbalances, ensuring that in future it is not limited to budgetary policy but extending its powers to the early detection and prevention of potentially harmful economic disparities. macroeconomic surveillance cannot be based on a static and simplistic reference framework, but such a procedure must be based on careful economic analysis, through in-depth reviews that analyse a wide range of economic factors.
in writing. - the directive in question was a great opportunity to try to create common standards among the 27 member states, as well as a great opportunity to simplify the community legislation on consumer rights, which is still fragmented in several legislative acts. however, the outcome of the parliamentary debates and, above all, the trilogues in the council's presence, has given us a text which does not satisfy me personally. the council deleted sensitive parts and some relevant aspects of the imco commission text, and the overall final work was affected by the conflict between different basic approaches to the subject. moreover, it was not possible, especially at this stage, to expect a result which would bring together legal traditions and protection standards which differed greatly from one member state to another. my final vote on the directive is to abstain.
in writing. - i welcome this vote, which represents a significant step forward for the internal market, the result of complex and detailed negotiations. we now await formal approval by the council. i think it is important that the european parliament continues to have a role in monitoring implementation by the member states over the next two years. while the adoption of the directive is an important achievement, its transposition into national law is the key step to ensuring that the legislation is properly implemented by the member states and that no obstacles or barriers to the single market are created. with this directive, european consumers are acquiring new rights guaranteed at european level, crossing national borders. this will certainly increase cross-border trade and boost online trade which is the real challenge for businesses and the economic revival of the market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the honourable member on his important and monumental work. but perhaps this was not the best time, given the current economic situation, to adopt this text. the attempt to synthesise twenty-seven different legal traditions in one text was perhaps too bold. the doubts about the consequences of the transposition of the directive in the individual member states and the disappearance from the text of the amendment adopted by our member in committee will cause me to abstain in the vote.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the time has come to harmonize the european legal system in the field of consumer protection. in 2008, the european commission adopted the proposal for a consumer rights directive, which brought together the four existing eu directives into a single legal instrument, with the aim of simplifying and harmonising the existing regulatory framework for consumer protection. it is now essential to ensure a high level of protection for all consumers in the 27 member states of the european union and to ensure that businesses can provide their products and services without facing unnecessary legal obstacles resulting from diversified systems. this situation has so far severely affected the european single market. in the age of online shopping and the globalisation of consumption, any trader operating from another member state should feel encouraged to enter the market of other european countries without the burdensome burden of complying with national rules. i hope that our work will respond to the great challenge of consumer protection and the need for growth in our businesses, in order to consolidate a strong and competitive market.
in writing. the european parliament has concluded the long legislative process on the consumer rights directive by adopting, with the schwab report, a satisfactory compromise with the council and the commission. two important steps are thus taken: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the consumer protection rules. the new directive lays down aspects that go towards greater protection of the european consumer, such as the information to be included in sales contracts, delivery times, the right to withdraw or to have a defective product repaired or replaced, and cases where risk is transferred from the seller to the consumer. although even more detailed rules may be established in the future, the text adopted represents a positive compromise in the harmonisation of existing rules, ensuring security in purchases and putting an end once and for all to the typical fraud behind electronic purchases.
in writing. − the aim of the consumer rights directive is to simplify contractual relations between consumers and businesses, contributing to a better functioning of the internal market and increasing their confidence in cross-border purchases. it should ensure a high level of protection for consumers and the possibility for businesses to provide their goods and services without encountering legal obstacles. the european commission has proposed the application of the principle of 'complete harmonisation', as the current existence of divergent national legislation has contributed to the fragmentation of the market and the regulatory framework. we consider this proposal to be impractical at the moment and propose instead a minimum standard of harmonisation at a high level of consumer protection, stressing the need for convergence of national legislation on the exercise and effects of the right of withdrawal. this will help to strengthen consumer confidence and to combat business reluctance to engage in cross-border trade. persons and organisations with an interest in consumer protection will have to submit a report to the commission on the results of the application of this directive. on this basis, the commission will draw up a report, accompanied by any proposals for adjustment.
in writing. − i am pleased to see that after years of negotiations the agreement between the different political parties has finally been reached and that the new consumer rights directive is finally adopted today. the new rules will considerably strengthen the rights of consumers, who will be better informed about the terms of contracts and the conditions of sale, as well as about delivery times and the possibility of cancelling contracts. i am thinking, for example, of the time taken for the refund of a returned product, which will be considerably shortened, thus guaranteeing the consumer financial security. or the right of reconsideration, which will extend to 14 days. small but important steps which will be appreciated not only by consumers, because the directive, as amended, will also benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, allowing them to extend their business even to cross-border territories, where many, especially smaller entrepreneurs, still find it difficult to operate because of the distrust that consumers maintain towards new technologies, online transactions, guarantees of recovery of money and legal satisfaction in the event of reconsideration.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive is the result of the review of the consumer acquis, which was launched in 2004 with the aim of simplifying and complementing the existing regulatory framework for consumer protection. the proposal aims to ensure that consumers in the 27 member states enjoy a high level of protection and that businesses, regardless of their size, can supply their goods and services to consumers in the 27 member states of the union without unnecessary legal obstacles. in order to avoid the increasing fragmentation of existing rules in this area, a targeted comprehensive harmonisation was sought, i.e. harmonisation limited to specific aspects of certain contracts while maintaining a high level of consumer protection. this is why the scope of the directive needs to be adjusted, since, in addition to a number of sectoral exemptions in a wide range of areas, it is limited to contracts negotiated outside commercial premises, which are increasingly a very significant part of crossborder contracts. in order to enable eu citizens to benefit fully from their internal market, particularly in relation to electronic commerce, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − in a large single market such as the european one, it is necessary to ensure the protection of consumer rights. mr schwab's report aims to merge four different directives: the commission has already adopted a number of directives on the subject, including the door-to-door directive, the distance selling directive, the guarantee directive and the contractual clauses directive. it is difficult to reconcile 27 different legal traditions on these issues. this is probably not the most appropriate time in history to bring about legislation of this complexity. i think it would have been more appropriate to focus on specific aspects and areas rather than trying to create a new competence shared between the eu and the member states. the directive will be an excessive and unnecessary step forward for some member states, while others will have to make concessions in the name of european harmonization. for this reason, while i acknowledge the great effort made by mr schwab, i cannot vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the schwab report which strengthens the rights of consumers and protects them in particular when they are weak contractors, such as in sales outside commercial premises. the directive, which marks the end of a long debate between parliament and the council, provides for the doubling of the withdrawal period from 7 to 14 days, and for the protection for lack of conformity to be strengthened. the commission has also proposed that the directive should be amended to include a new provision on the protection of consumers against the risks of fraud.
in writing. − one in two europeans use the internet and online shopping has increased by 100% over the last six years. yet, the online marketplace continues to be underutilized. the existence of minimum harmonisation clauses has led to the fragmentation of the regulatory framework, hindering the full completion of the single market. the report adopted contributes to improving the functioning of the internal market, while increasing consumer confidence. until now, companies have too often found it difficult to operate not only on the national market but also on the transnational market. in addition, excessive fragmentation has reduced the choice and confidence of millions of european citizens in cross-border shopping. the proposal voted today introduces the obligation to provide clear and readable information, encouraging careful and informed choices. consumers will have a range of remedies available to them if they purchase a product which does not conform to the contract and will be able to claim damages if they are not remedied. a list of clauses deemed unfair and therefore prohibited throughout the european union is also to be published.
in writing. - consumer rights is just one of many examples of how, at this historic moment, the european institutions are not able to take action of great legal and political importance. we would like to see all the work done and the positive things achieved not lost, such as, for example, what we have done with our amendment on the right of return, which is intended to bring about a clear improvement in the activity of small traders without affecting the prerogatives of consumers. the result of this plenary session was to delete the few good things that the rapporteur and the groups had introduced into a proposal that was born badly. the european parliament is not responsible for this situation, but the european commission. there are issues where we euro-critics in the northern league are also prepared to say yes to a high level of harmonization, but only when this coincides with common sense, the interests of citizens, of small and mediumsized enterprises and, why not, the prerogatives of the member states. a complex issue such as consumer protection required an approach that took this into account from the outset. we shall abstain from voting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text presented by mr schwab because i believe it to be a good basis for negotiation with the council and the commission to reach agreement on the level of harmonisation needed to achieve consumer rights enforceable in each member state.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet i support the commission's proposal and mr tatarella's report because it is absolutely necessary to support a sector in serious difficulty. the directives concern the emissions from agricultural tractors and engines of non-road mobile machinery. this is an important and well-developed sector in our regions which needs our support, given the 25% losses compared with the pre-crisis period and no further constraints.
in writing. − today's vote will enable european agricultural tractor manufacturers to meet the stricter exhaust emission limits imposed by the entry into force of phase iiib of directive 2000/25/ec. we must remember that in order to comply with the new limits, engines will have to undergo major changes which will also involve substantial changes in vehicle design. in many cases solutions for adapting tractors to new engines are not yet available or definitive. this technological backlog is compounded by the effects of the economic crisis which hit this industrial sector very hard, causing a decrease in turnover of 20-25% compared to 2008. a reinforced flexibility scheme will allow for a smoother transition between the different phases of setting emission levels and will also allow companies to dilute the necessary investments, including in research and development, over a longer period of time. finally, i would like to point out that the amendment of this directive will have a negligible environmental impact but will generate significant economic benefits by enabling eu producers to overcome the current crisis and at the same time respect the limits of european environmental protection legislation.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to express my positive opinion of this report on the placing of tractors on the market under the flexibility scheme, since it introduces appropriate measures, taking account of a number of aspects. on the one hand, it is rightly taken into account that the crisis has upset the whole economic and productive landscape, including the tractor sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. on the other hand, it is not a question of retreating from the important question of pollution, but of using a criterion which has been adopted on the basis of common sense. this is the europe we want, the europe which can respond to real needs and modify existing measures when they no longer prove appropriate to the changed situation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend directive 2000/25/ec on emissions from agricultural tractors is only quantitative, but it does not affect or alter the environmental protection objectives, nor does it affect the operational and expiry dates. this directive addresses exhaust gas emissions from diesel engines installed in tractors by setting the maximum level of emissions, depending on the power of the engine used, and organises in successive time steps the pathway to gradual emission reductions. phase a ended on 31 december 2010 and phase b started on 1 january 2011. the limits imposed in the newly launched phase are much stricter than in the previous ones. it was precisely to facilitate these stages that a 'flexibility scheme' was introduced in the directive, allowing manufacturers to place on the market a limited number of tractors with engines rated at the emission limits permitted in the previous stage. the amendment is to increase the proportion of these tractors from 20 to 50%. for these reasons, and because the technological backlog and the world financial crisis have not allowed these factors to be adjusted, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - thank you, mr president, i think that the commission proposal on the provisions for tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme provides for timely, simple and effective measures. allowing the sale of a larger proportion of tractors calibrated to the old, more permissive emission limits will in fact help to protect the economic interests of this strategic manufacturing sector, without altering the environmental protection objectives already planned. if this request had not been granted, the situation would have worsened significantly. we have now succeeded in avoiding the risk that farmers, given the difficult economic situation, would have to keep their old tractors, which are much more polluting, for longer than necessary.
in writing. these two proposed amendments to the directives are essential for the survival of european manufacturing enterprises. the commission has proposed a 50% exemption for vehicles produced in the eu over the last five years, due to the technological backlog which makes it impossible to comply with the mechanical changes needed to move to the new phase, except at disproportionate cost, and as a consequence of the economic crisis which has hit the tractor market, which has been declining by 20% a year since 2008. we would have liked both directives to accept the commission's proposals, as the impact on emissions would be absolutely negligible. i regret that the position of the left groups and mr pietikäinen is against this on purely a matter of principle and does not take into account the risk that, if these derogations are not approved, our factories will be closed and jobs will be lost. the final compromise reached at the trilogues resulted in an agreement at first reading of a 40% derogation for tractors and 37.5% for non-road mobile machinery. even if we are not satisfied, we will vote in favour of directives for extremely short periods of time which, if not respected, would make them useless.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the management of radioactive waste because it helps to build up a homogeneous body of legislation to ensure safe management, as parliament has long called for harmonisation of the rules. in accordance with the principle of reversibility, it is, however, necessary to provide for technical design and solutions for final disposal, thus allowing potential access to and recovery of waste for technical reasons or in the event that scientific progress favours the establishment of new technological solutions such as transmutation. i agree with the aim of the proposal to ensure adequate financial resources to meet the requirements for decommissioning nuclear installations and to ensure transparency in management. the responsibility for the safe management of spent fuel and waste remains with the member states but compliance with this obligation can be reconciled with the pursuit of joint initiatives aimed at shared management of radioactive waste under strict and appropriately defined conditions.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the proposal for a directive is to ensure that the member states establish a national regulatory and organizational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, irrespective of the prospects for nuclear energy and non-energy applications.
in writing. - 40 000 m3 of radioactive waste are produced in the european union each year, of which 80% is low-level short-lived waste, 5% is low-level long-lived waste and less than 10% is high-level waste. in view of these facts, i believe it is important to establish a community regulatory framework which, with the help of national programmes, will regulate the production and disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the objective of achieving sustainable disposal of certain substances requires continuous monitoring and the progressive development of long-term technological solutions. that is why i agree with the rapporteur that we must focus on reversibility, and hope that research will soon lead to the final transmutation of spent fuel and radioactive waste for other uses. in fact, research and technological development are the key to the breakthrough in this sector, which will allow the safe use of nuclear energy, capable of meeting the energy demand of the food, medical, industrial, agricultural, research and education sectors. finally, i hope that the adoption of this report will be an important step towards the achievement of a european energy plan.
in writing. − the tragedy of the earthquake in japan is forcing europe to reflect more deeply on the consequences of the use of nuclear technology and its impact on the safety of european citizens; the european parliament, in approving the report on the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, shows its particular concern for this issue by expressing a clear desire to find definitive and common solutions to the storage of nuclear waste in europe. the demand for minimum standards common to all member states is encouraging governments to invest in new technologies with a view to achieving concrete and rapid results in the disposal of these highly harmful wastes. i therefore welcome two amendments tabled by the s&d group, which call for parliament to be involved in the co-decision procedure with the council on matters relating to the use of nuclear energy and which establish the fundamental ban on the export of waste to third countries, a ban which shows parliament's determination to take its responsibilities seriously. the vote by parliament is therefore a further step towards a gradual move away from nuclear power towards sustainable energy solutions that are safe for citizens.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for a directive establishing an eu regulatory framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. establishing requirements for member states to establish a national organisational and regulatory framework, so that they can develop appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, from generation to disposal. the proposal is based on the euratom treaty and, in particular, on the guidelines set out in the report entitled 'evaluation of euratom - 50 years of european nuclear energy policy'. the rapporteur identifies four main priorities among the amendments proposed in the draft report for consideration by the committee members. the first is the planning of projects and technical solutions for final disposal, in particular deep geological disposal. the second is to ensure that financial resources are set aside to meet the requirements for decommissioning nuclear installations and waste disposal. the third concerns the development of regional waste disposal facilities. the last one is about transparency and public participation. for these reasons i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. − this directive aims to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, irrespective of the prospects for nuclear energy and non-energy applications. the commission's position that member states are responsible for the safe management, including disposal, of spent fuel and radioactive waste produced by them, by developing their own programmes, is to be supported. many of the amendments incorporated in the text are questionable. in a sensitive subject such as this, the utmost transparency and information of the citizens is essential, but it is not possible to restrict such choices to public participation in decision-making processes. without definite rules, we risk not taking the decisions necessary for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. that is why i cannot support this report.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has approved the mandate for the trilogue on the 2012 budget. as shadow rapporteur for the epp, i am very pleased with the final document, which can provide a guideline for the negotiations with the council, which will allow us to reach the approval of the eu general budget for 2012 at the end of the whole procedure. the document sets out the priorities of the european parliament, placing the need for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth at the heart of the 2012 budget, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. we also want to support research, development, innovation, employment and smes. i believe that investments in these areas are the only way to bring europe out of the crisis and that the eu budget, even in times of austerity, can be a key instrument for boosting european action.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find this report on the mandate for the trilogue quite satisfactory. i am glad that, in a period of crisis and justified cuts, there is still an increase in the resources allocated from the european budget to heading 3a, namely to the management of the phenomenon of immigration. i hope therefore that the european union will no longer hide behind a finger and leave italy alone to deal with this problematic situation. some cuts are necessary and therefore some priorities may even be put on the back burner. it is always difficult to say where and how, but somewhere action is necessary. we could start with administrative expenditure, for example, and here we are still a long way from the commissioner's request to remain below the percentage point of increase. it is clear that cases like epso are emblematic of mismanagement and that this, as with some agencies, is the starting point for attempts to limit the costs of european administration. for the reasons just mentioned, i have therefore voted to abstain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it clearly points out that the eu agricultural budget in the next financing period has to be maintained at least at the same level as the 2013 agricultural budget, considering that only with adequate financial resources will it be possible to meet the challenges of food security and environmental protection. thanks to the socialist group’s amendments now the report is more balanced and in line with the commission communication which recognises the need for further reform of the cap in view of the changing nature of the farming industry in the eu27 and of the new international context of globalisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it takes due account of the role of agriculture in terms of economic and employment, sustainable development and the conservation of biodiversity. europe needs a sound agricultural policy, with transparent rules and effective and rapid prevention tools, which can reduce red tape, manage risks and adopt effective policies to deal with crises. 'innovation' and 'a well-organised infrastructure network' are the basic criteria for making agricultural enterprises competitive, competent and prepared, and for ensuring that even in rural areas there is access to culture and training. more support must be given to young farmers to avoid rural flight and to aim at a generational change that can give continuity to existing activities. this must be accompanied by a budget that is appropriate to the needs, by identifying instruments that are not prone to abuse and by working to contain price volatility. finally, we must not forget that the agricultural challenge is directly linked to the food challenge and is therefore fundamental to safeguarding the health of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think it has done an excellent job, despite the complexity of the problem. combining food security with environmental sustainability in the medium and long term, with rural development, with a strong focus on the prudent management of financial resources and with the aspects linked to international trade patterns has required considerable skill but i think the rapporteur has done a very good job of it, and i congratulate him. i particularly appreciated the reference to quality as the basis on which to build everything else. it is also not trivial to recognise that payments based on the two pillars of the cap are not mere public funding but purchase a public good which the market may not remunerate in proportion to its importance. cross-compliance is also a good way of avoiding waste, although its practical application must be improved. the report provides answers to the main questions which remained unanswered in the implementation of the cap. i also think it is good that the less obvious issues are continuously monitored.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural sector still plays a strategic role in our societies and economies. it does so primarily from the food point of view, not only because it provides the raw materials for food, but also because its safety is crucial to health. it also carries out this task from an environmental point of view, since the vitality of the sector and the quality of the production processes allow for an environmentally friendly management of the land. it also does so from a social point of view, since it is a challenge for quality, young and innovative employment. finally, it does so from an economic point of view, because if it is addressed on the local/global axis, it allows the economic valorization of typical, quality, certified and high added value products, through the adoption of management models that make companies and their products cooperative and competitive on a global scale. a fair cap, favouring micro, small and medium-sized farms and typical, certified and quality products, supporting environmentally friendly processes, setting aid ceilings and providing adequate resources for rural development is an ambitious and far-reaching policy for the benefit of citizens, consumers and farmers. i believe that the report we have adopted offers this prospect.
in writing. - there is great expectation for such an important and sensitive area as the european agricultural policy. we are in the middle of a journey which will be long and complex because we have to give answers to farmers and at the same time deal with the global challenges of food security. technological progress and innovation will play a key role in the new cap. another key point in the report is a significant reduction in red tape for farmers and national authorities, by simplifying the many administrative obligations in the sector. the cap is also called upon to contribute to the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy, i.e. a greener and more sustainable cap, which provides farmers with additional funding by recognising their role in protecting the environment and helping them to choose environmentally friendly farming techniques. finally, it will be important to develop transparent and efficient tools to help farmers manage short territorial chains, promote quality and provide information to consumers, thus promoting fair and transparent price formation mechanisms.
in writing. the report adopted by the plenary is fully in line with the guidelines already set out by the european commission and calls for a revision of the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020 that is able to meet the challenge of eco-sustainability, job creation and ensuring food quality and safety. the european parliament, by approving this text, is demonstrating its opposition to regressive measures and is proposing that the future cap budget should remain at least at the 2013 level, thus ensuring that farmers have the support they need to invest in new technologies, a key step in maintaining competitiveness in this sector. the s&d group has made a decisive contribution, thanks also to the numerous amendments proposed both in the committee on agriculture and in the plenary, to reach a convincing result, thus sending a clear message to the european commission in view of the legislative proposals expected in october.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr albert deß, which is a strategic document for european agriculture. in recent months there has been an intense debate on how to reconcile the needs, expectations and requirements not only of farmers but also of all european citizens. the cap is a policy for all and by all. it has resources for the competitiveness of enterprises, for food safety, for ensuring fair prices for consumers and for offering the public increasingly protected public goods. since its inception, the cap has undergone a number of reforms which demonstrate that it is a tool for agriculture which is constantly changing in order to better respond to the many challenges it has to face. i am pleased with this vote, which is a milestone for the european parliament and for the first time expresses the will of 27 countries on the future of eu agriculture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the deß report because i support a reform of the cap which takes account of the changing nature of the agricultural sector in the european union. the report proposes to simplify the cap by dividing it into two pillars: the first fully financed by the eu budget and the second providing for multiannual programming and a co-financing approach. this pillar design contributes to the clarity of the cap for the farmers concerned and to the elimination of duplication. i also support this report because it raises the need to maintain the union's agricultural budget for the next financial period after 2013. adequate financial resources are essential to address the challenges of food security, environmental protection, climate change and the territorial balance of the union following enlargement to the east. the deß report also calls for the development of a quality policy for food products with protected geographical indications (pgi and pdo), a necessary measure to ensure the authenticity of local and regional food specialities. i support the report because it includes the gender dimension in the cap. it states that both spouses working in the agricultural sector should have equal rights. 42% of people employed in agriculture are women, but only one in five farms is run by a woman.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the common agricultural policy has historically been the main and most important line of action of the european union, and it still has a vital importance today. it is right that this report, which i fully support, should stress the value of agriculture, both from the food point of view and from the point of view of rural development and protection of the environment. the cap has already been profoundly (and rightly) reformed in the past: the new challenges ahead are to make it even more simple and conditional. the smaller farms are often subject to heavy burdens in terms of compliance with health and environmental rules: the commission is therefore in favour of the request that these rules be adapted to the different conditions of a holding. the cap can be prone to fraud and deception, and it is therefore also right that the really 'active' farmers be identified at european level in order to avoid an unacceptable waste of resources. finally, i would like to stress the need to firmly oppose speculation on the international markets in the prices of agricultural products: i do not think it is acceptable for big business to make a strategic sector like this, which concerns food and the very survival of individuals, conditional on its own pleasure.
in writing. - in response to rumours about the cutting of aid to the second pillar of the cap, i reiterate my support for ensuring adequate financial resources also for rural development. we need to keep the eu budget for agriculture unchanged until 2020 to ensure that farmers are guaranteed the incentives to provide safe food stocks, to protect the environment, to create new jobs and to ensure the competitiveness of the community's agricultural sector. this vote sends a clear and strong signal to the commissioner for agriculture and rural development, dacian cioloş. if the eu's agricultural policy aims to provide safe, high-quality food and contributes to environmental protection and renewable energy, it must be adequately funded to provide farmers with an incentive to use modern and environmentally friendly techniques. the fight against agricultural commodity speculation and extreme price volatility requires a global solution to ensure greater stability for farmers and large-scale supplies of safe food. i therefore support a worldwide system of reporting on the current state of stocks, to combat wild speculation in agricultural raw materials.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i share the rapporteur's views on the focal points of cap reform for the period after april 2013. first, in order for the cap to contribute to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives, the union agricultural budget for the next financial period should maintain at least the same amount as the agricultural budget for the financial year 2013. in particular, the cap needs to be simplified by reducing red tape for administrations and farmers and the costs of administering the policy at member state level. finally, in order to maintain the european union's leading role in this field, food quality and food safety, which are the raison d'être of agriculture at community and world level, must be further strengthened.
i would like to thank mr langen and the other colleagues with whom we have worked on this complex report. i think it is particularly important what mr langen said when he said that we want to maintain the scope of this regulation, in keeping with the mandate of the g20 in pittsburgh in 2009: the fundamental objective of bringing the majority of over-the-counter derivatives back to regulated platforms, in order to avoid a continued high degree of risk and speculation; when you get, as has happened, to trade, to insure 400 million dollars without collateral, that is without adequate reserves, you understand the risks we are taking. but i would also like to mention two problems: the first problem is the relationship with the council, the second problem is the organization of the proposal for financial market reform which we must put forward. i raise the first problem with regard to the council, and i say it very clearly: the council has been a major force in the negotiations on the financial markets since the beginning of the year. i hope that the new presidency will take up this problem, because here too we must take account of the length of time which is due in large measure to the positions, difficulties and contradictions that are emerging in the council. it is also a question of the procedure we wish to follow. the second question: the organic nature and specificity of the measures. there is not just the otc provision, there is the provision on short selling and so on. i want to make two points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not affected by the crisis. i think these are problems on which parliament must act.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, otc derivatives have become a kind of uncontrolled jungle, without rules, in which speculators and swindlers have been able to play their games. this report seems to bring some clarity to the sector, starting with the storage of trade data, that is, lifting the veil of obscurity that has hitherto existed in the market. the clearing obligation through central counterparties is certainly useful for risk prevention and for the overall stability of the financial system. it was right, however, to exempt non-financial firms from this obligation - those which are actually productive, that is to say - which can use derivatives to cover real risks, for example those linked to exchange rate fluctuations. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this report is part of a wider international review of the sector, following common guidelines. financial markets are the most interconnected in the world and therefore the climate needs to be as harmonious as possible. for this reason, i find it difficult to introduce a financial transaction tax at the level of the european community alone. i believe that good regulation of the whole financial sector, as far as possible, will work better and will certainly be more useful than any new taxation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to join in the congratulations that have been paid to mr langen and all the shadow rapporteurs for having brought a consensus text here, and i fully agree that serious and careful regulation of derivatives must be put in place to avoid highly speculative and unorthodox behaviour. however, derivatives should not be demonized, as they are a useful and important financial instrument if used correctly. the approach to regulatory reform should therefore be critical but not negative. we therefore agree that there is a need for control and supervision. it is necessary for national and european supervisors to be able to monitor and know the size and volume of trade, but at the same time we must be careful not to be too restrictive, imposing thresholds, deadlines and bureaucratic burdens, which would in practice make such instruments useless. it is not the financial instruments themselves that have led to the crisis, but their reckless and unregulated use and lack of supervision, and it is these aspects that must be addressed. this requires stricter rules for ccps, both in terms of capital requirements and the conduct of business, and more powers for esma and the clearing and technical standards committee to avoid differences between states. i welcome the general introduction of information to keep the situation under control and to have a complete picture of the derivatives market, which will enable us to take preventive action. finally, i think it is important to exempt non-financial institutions from certain obligations when they use the derivatives market to hedge the risks associated with their activities.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the various entities that are identified by the name of financial conglomerates are found in different areas and are therefore difficult to reduce to a single category and to a single regulatory scope. in the past this situation has created many difficulties, which have been exacerbated by the financial crisis. the report is therefore a step in the right direction to fill a gap which has become increasingly evident over time. the newly created european market surveillance authorities, banks and insurance companies must be able to act in concert in this area and the establishment of a joint committee seems to me to be a good idea. the scope of this directive needs to be clearly identified at european level in order to avoid misunderstandings and potential conflicts which would weaken the role of prevention and surveillance in this area. the increasing interdependence which has developed in the financial sector certainly calls for new rules, which are more valid and more extensive and can therefore cover the whole of europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, forgive me for arriving late, my plane departed very late, but i know you were in the capable hands of commissioner barnier. let me thank you and the rapporteur for the debate, and let me quickly answer a few of the questions. i think baroness ludford asked whether the agency would cover any other it systems. the agency will initially take over operational management of vis and eurodac. sis ii will also be taken over as soon as it is operational, i.e. in the first quarter of 2013. in the communication that the commission made a few weeks ago, we also referred to the european entry/exit system and a registered travel programme. we also announced that we would conduct further consultations in the coming weeks, and this is what we will do, together with the parliament and with the council, regarding the communication on smart borders. them plan is to entrust these systems, once they are in place, to the it agency, working on the basis of the relevant instruments. i can assure mr albrecht that no other system will be put in place without a specific legal act, and that interoperability will not be introduced without the consent of the two co-legislators. with regard to mr enciu’s question on security, all safeguards are in place both from a legal and logistical point of view; i can reassure him of that. we have achieved something very worthwhile with this compromise between the three institutions. i am looking forward to this new agency becoming operational and starting work.
in writing. i have voted in favour of mr coelho's report in this house because i am convinced of the need to set up an agency responsible for the operational management of large-scale information technology systems in the framework of the area of freedom, security and justice. as the commission itself stated in 2009, the management of systems such as sis ii, vis and eurodac, which are so complex and at the same time so decisive within the european union, cannot continue to be characterised by the temporary nature which has characterised them up to now. temporary management by the commission cannot guarantee the technical and operational character which the creation of a special agency will allow, by ensuring in a continuous and constant manner what will be its main tasks: the adoption of security measures; reporting and publication; the monitoring; the organisation of specific training. i therefore fully agree with what has been decided in the report and i am fully confident that this is a further step towards ensuring that europe remains on the path which guarantees a comprehensive network for the development of security and democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fukushima accident continues to have very serious consequences, with the release of radioactive water into the sea 6,500 times higher than the legal limits. the risk of contamination of foodstuffs is high. europe has established very strict controls, but this applies only to fresh products. no safeguard rules have been issued for processed products, in particular canned fish. we import 370 000 tonnes of canned tuna, the main suppliers being the countries of southeast asia which import fish from japan. this means that canned fish imported into europe could contain japanese fish. it is essential and urgent that precise information be given on the place of origin. today, consumers know where the box was made, but not where the fish was caught. the commission has recently recognised this and is planning to fill this gap with the reform of the common fisheries policy, which will not come into force for two years, just as the sommer report under discussion in this house will not come into effect for three years. we do not want to create alarms, but consumers have a right to urgent and transparent information. the commission must act as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to the turin-lyon high-speed railway, for which the european union is about to contribute eur 672 million. this contribution was conditional. first of all: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. to date, the only work done in the area has been a fortified fence where 900 officers are stationed to monitor and keep citizens away. in these largely illegal conditions, for the european union to provide the planned contribution would only mean giving in to a fraud perpetrated by the italian government and the regional government of piedmont as well as by the lobbies that heavily influence them. "achtung, bandits, what are you doing?"
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday 60 000 italians demonstrated in val di susa against the absurd project to build the turin-lyon high-speed railway. as a member of the european parliament, i condemn all forms of violence, whether it is the violence of the infiltrated thugs who caused the riots yesterday, or the violence of italian mps and ministers who today wanted to assimilate the peaceful 'no tav' people to the 'black bloc'. everyone knows that the tav in val di susa will never happen. can you militarize a territory for 20 years? this is the result of the failure to listen to the citizens and must be a lesson for the european union. the works are done with the citizens and for the citizens, not for the committees of party affairs of the right and the left. the deadlines set by the commission for the disbursement of the european contribution of eur 662 million have expired. kallas is to withdraw his contribution immediately. italy is enjoying privileges which are not granted to other member states by these extensions. i therefore ask the committee on petitions to send a delegation to val di susa as soon as possible to find out what is happening and to listen to the people. the european parliament must not abandon these citizens and their cause.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, i join in the thanks already expressed by various quarters, but i will not go into the individual points which justify the thanks. the committee on constitutional affairs, which i chair, has had the opportunity to meet with her several times in her country, first with a delegation, then within cosac, and has been able to record the constant, clear, europe-oriented commitment of the hungarian presidency. the committee on constitutional affairs would like to thank you in particular for the help you have given in the conclusion of the report on the citizens' initiative, which took place this semester, and for the statements made just recently by minister győri here, in which he made a commitment on behalf of the council to join the register for transparency as soon as possible, and the polish presidency will have to follow suit. hungary has indicated as its slogan 'a stronger europe' and i think that was a very well-chosen symbol. you have been through a storm which has been made even more violent by the criticism that has come from this parliament. i must say that, as a constitutional scholar, i have written a book on all european constitutions, and it is unheard of for anyone to criticize a constitution of a member country for reasons of internal policy. it is also unheard of to say that a constitution is contrary to european principles because it mentions the values of life and the family, which are the values that belong to the tradition of europe and which are the building blocks of europe. so i thank you not only for the strong and courageous work of your presidency, but also for the constitution that hungary has had.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, there has been a great debate on the new hungarian constitution, but beyond the polemics, i want to express my personal appreciation for the explicit reference in that constitution to the future of the new generations. the fact that the hungarian presidency has given priority to the directive on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography, for which i was rapporteur, is also proof of this great sensitivity towards young people and children. the agreement will be voted on in committee next week and it is indeed an effective, valid and cutting-edge legislative instrument. there will be tougher criminal sanctions, better protection for victims, a definition of sex tourism, the criminalisation of grooming offences online and offline and then the seizure and confiscation of assets obtained through such crimes and the compulsory removal of child pornography content online. these are just some of the points i wanted to stress, but all of this - and i want to stress this - has been made possible in part by the great availability and sensitivity of the hungarian presidency to these issues.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not understand why there are so many problems in allowing individual states to allow or not to allow gm crops. but isn't our motto "united in diversity"? so why should we be afraid that a single state, in respect of the wishes of its citizens, will ban or at least partially reduce the use of gmo crops? i do not see where the problem lies if we want to talk about democracy, if we want to talk about consumer rights and protection. the lega nord has always been close to consumers, the lega nord is afraid of not wanting to indicate on the label the place of origin of a food product, it is afraid that we want to say "no" to "made in", the lega nord wants the consumer to be informed and to have the right not to eat gmos. i thank the rapporteur, she has done a very good job. i guarantee that our group will vote for those amendments which are compromise and the final text will only have our vote in favour if those amendments are passed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am concerned about the possibility of allowing member states to ban the cultivation of gmos for reasons other than the protection of human health and the environment. in my view, this possibility risks setting a dangerous precedent by derogating from the principle of the uniform functioning of the internal market and a market in which some farmers, unlike others, could use products which, according to the commission's data, guarantee higher average yields of 12.5% and a significant reduction in production costs. the loss of competitiveness would result in fewer jobs and less growth for agricultural producers, who are subject to a restriction of freedom of enterprise without any protection of collective interests being at stake. i would remind you that the situation of food security in the world is worrying: by 2050, we will need to increase world agricultural production by 70%. in this context, i believe that it is inappropriate to impose further restrictions on the only technology that simultaneously ensures increased production and environmental sustainability, but rather that it should be strengthened and improved. i also think that it is appropriate to increase public investment in research and experimentation so that this sector does not remain in the hands of multinationals.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would simply like to convey the commission's thanks to mr canfin, who has just spoken, and to mr werner langen and the groups who have approved this idea. i think we are on the verge, if we give ourselves the necessary few weeks or days, of reaching agreement with the council on these two important subjects, short selling on the one hand, and derivatives on the other. in any event, the commission would like to express its readiness to contribute to this. these are two major topics, and we shall, in the end, draw a great deal from the lessons of the crisis on these two financial topics. that is what the citizens expect, and i thank the european parliament for giving itself the few days it needs to try to reach these two dynamic compromises on two important subjects.
mr president, this amendment seeks to delete the second part of the paragraph, in particular the words 'requires that the presentation be made in one of the three working languages (english, german or french) and in addition to the national language'. that part would be deleted, that is the proposal in the amendment.
mr president, it is clear that more than forty have now risen, but it is equally clear that not all those who have now risen have done so before. if we have to wait two hours for the 40th amendment to be tabled and then not put it to the vote, let us put it in the rules of procedure. when you asked who was against, 40 did not stand up, so i think the amendment can be put to the vote.
mr president, there is increasing talk of the single market act and the small business act, which are instruments to simplify community legislation on small and mediumsized enterprises. the objectives are growth, employment and consumer protection, but also reducing administrative burdens and removing trade barriers. unfortunately, there are still considerable bureaucratic gaps which severely restrict the freedom of small and mediumsized enterprises, such as urban planning, which sometimes creates many problems for street vendors operating in public areas, who risk being treated as natural resources when parking in market areas, or the introduction of new criteria for the granting or renewal of concessions which are detrimental to the whole sector. the renewal criteria should be linked to the improvement of the areas, the professionalism of the drivers, which is obviously due to their seniority in terms of concession title, and finally the evaluation of the investments made over the years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal for an amending regulation is to update the text in the light of the evolution of european union legislation on consumer protection. given that the current results of crossborder cooperation in consumer protection are not always satisfactory, it is appropriate to undertake a review which takes account of recent legislative developments in the field of consumer protection. the proposal to insert a review clause in the regulation, addressed to the commission, to commit it to a substantial revision of the existing regulation, including the extension of its scope, is equally positive.
mr president, regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 aims to remove obstacles to crossborder cooperation between public enforcement authorities in order to detect, investigate and bring to an end or prohibit infringements of consumer protection legislation within the european union. as we know, the regulation aims to achieve its objectives by establishing, at european union level, a network of public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation in the member states. i agree with the need to update legislation in the light of recent developments in consumer protection legislation. by eliminating non-essential rules, we will facilitate consumer protection cooperation between the competent national authorities. i believe that the amendments contained in the report will succeed in achieving the objectives set and in strengthening legal certainty, which is why i voted in favour of the repo report.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the states must have a solid legal basis for deciding on the future of gmos and above all because it must be recognised that the environmental, as well as socioeconomic, agricultural impact can justify prohibitions or restrictions. i would point out that more than 60% of european citizens are opposed to the development and cultivation of gmos and that there is still no solid scientific basis to remove any doubt about the impact of gmos on territories, cultures and consumers. it is therefore once again the precautionary principle which must guide our legislative action, because until we are sure that gmos are not harmful to crops or to consumers, we have a duty to protect european citizens from potential harmful effects.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs corinne lepage on her determination to ensure that this dossier was successful. i have strongly supported this report in all the forums because it seems to me to be a report which at the same time gives legal force to the text we have adopted and also fills a legal vacuum which has given rise to a serious legal dispute between companies, public bodies and citizens. it is a measure to prevent the colonization of territories; it therefore leaves the choice to the nations to ban or restrict the cultivation of gmos. the amendments made by this text will therefore allow individual states to ban the cultivation of gmos because of the impact they may have on the agricultural system, taking into account biodiversity in particular, but also the resistance to pesticides, the invasiveness of certain crops and therefore the protection of our territories.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i have always expressed many concerns about gmo crops in europe, especially because european agricultural production has always focused on the uniqueness, high quality and excellence of its products and aims to protect the health of citizens through numerous quality controls and transparent traceability processes. furthermore, as stated in the opinion of the legal affairs committee, gmos cannot be considered in the same way as any other product, being living organisms that are capable of reproducing and multiplying themselves and, secondly, they have an impact on production systems and ecosystems, which are extremely diverse in the union. that is why each member state must have the right to decide on gmos.
mr president, i have always taken a very cautious view of genetically modified organisms. i believe that in the absence of scientific evidence to prove that it is absolutely safe for health and in the face of serious economic problems, particularly in countries which are strongly committed to quality and uniqueness, the precautionary principle should be used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also have liked the commission to be more courageous in its approach to prudence, but there are positive aspects to be taken into account, in particular the fact that it introduces a new element, namely the possibility for member states to ban gmo cultivation on agri-environmental grounds, which strengthens their legal position in the face of possible appeals to the wto. for these reasons i voted in favour of the legislative proposal.
mr president, a very difficult and controversial issue was voted on today, namely gmos. leaving it to the member states to ban or restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory means that the european union is giving up its leading role on such a sensitive issue. there are still many questions. do we know what the long-term effects will be on the ecosystem? are we reasonably certain that the use of gmos does not pose serious health risks? are we sure that consumers whose state has banned the cultivation of these crops in their own territory are not consuming them anyway? we are far from certain, the only certainty i have is that both the commission and the member states should ensure that the necessary resources are made available for independent research and that gmos are not just a shortcut to profit.
mr president, the pieper report on cohesion policy after 2013 reduces the effects of a two-speed europe. only uniform growth can ensure real cohesion between our territories and, even in our diversity, overall unity. i voted for the text because it introduces an intermediate category, which allows many european regions to continue to benefit from the structural funds to the same extent as they have done so far. the lack of effective programming for the use of european funds has unfortunately meant that many regions have not been able to make the most of the resources made available by the european union, risking losing a large part of the funding. but there is a positive signal from brussels. we hope that our regions will be able to interpret and use the funds to the best of their ability.
mr president, there is great anticipation for the legislative proposals for the future post-2013 cohesion policy which will be presented next september. the commission has already announced that the reform will introduce an intermediate category which should replace the current system of phasing in and phasing out. i am perplexed about the implications of this new category, since it will also include, at least apparently, regions which are currently neither in the convergence nor in the competitiveness regime. i would remind you that the priority of cohesion policy is to help the regions whose development is lagging behind, and i would therefore not want the reform to harm the poorest regions of europe which are struggling to set in motion development policies. we hope, however, that the new programming will give a boost to europe's growth.
mr president, the pieper report is certainly a good report, and i believe that many countries like italy, which are in a position to be both major contributors and major beneficiaries of cohesion policy, attach great importance to this report and to this work. the revision is mainly aimed at strengthening the evaluation of results, controls and cross-compliance. it is certainly a shared and important path, provided that the budgetary structure remains unchanged and above all that the gross domestic product remains the main criterion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in the member states, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account. the fifth paragraph, which i tried to amend by means of an oral amendment, introduces the obligation to submit programmes and projects not only in the language of the member state but also in english, french and german, and that is unacceptable. second question about the intermediate categories: i do not think that they are a useful introduction to helping the countries in greatest difficulty, which should be the main objective of cohesion policy.
mr president, this is a good report, a very important report for the balanced, harmonious and sustainable development of our communities. strong solidarity between member states makes our regions more attractive, more innovative and more competitive. simplification of access to aid, more effective controls and quality of expenditure are the objectives for a better functioning of this instrument. more investment in research, knowledge, innovation, growth, the development of small and mediumsized enterprises and jobs. one final thought: the creation of a new intermediate category must not take resources away from existing categories, but must bring and focus only on additional resources.
mr president, i voted in favour of the wagner report because it effectively highlights the strengths and weaknesses of the european commission's approach to the relaunch of energy infrastructure: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission, is based on the following three criteria: the need to determine the necessary infrastructure; the criteria for the selection of projects of european interest in the context of financing that attracts and stimulates private investment; the urgency of addressing the dangers of dependence on a single source in eastern europe, which, as has been demonstrated in recent years, can cause serious supply problems; and the opportunity to invest part of the one trillion euro over ten years envisaged by the european commission in reducing pollution, combating climate change and improving the quality of supply, for clean and secure energy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the ongoing process of globalisation of world markets. this fund is in favour of the workers and does not want to act in any way for the benefit of the company which made the redundancies. as regards the mobilisation of the funds for the case in question, i abstained because i believe that there were criticisms and that the admissibility of the request was not so obvious. in fact, although the commission approved the request, certain factors made me inclined to abstain: the non-sudden dismissal of workers, given that almost a year had passed from the announcement of the closure of the yard to the request for mobilisation of the fund; in addition, 750 of the 950 workers who should be eligible for assistance from the fund had already been applied for by a norwegian company for offshore activities.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, is intended to support and help the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global trends in the markets. this trend is more pronounced in this time of economic crisis. the case involves a discharge in denmark. in the absence of any critical elements, i confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for denmark, because i consider it a valuable instrument to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. today's vote was on a request for a call for tenders concerning redundancies in odense steel shipyard, for which the commission proposed to allocate eur 14 181 901. i would also like to stress, more generally, the important role of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has proved to be a useful and effective resource in recent years in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - we support the adoption of a new proposal for a commission decision on the mobilisation of the egf for denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers at odense steel shipyard who were made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the fund will not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. we believe that a number of factors should be taken into account, including: the link between redundancies and major structural changes in world trade flows or the financial crisis; the identification of firms which have made redundancies and of workers eligible for assistance; the territory concerned with the respective authorities and stakeholders; the impact of redundancies on local, regional or national employment; the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed; the actual or planned start dates of personalised services for the workers concerned and the procedures for consulting the social partners and the management and control systems. we believe that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria and that the committee on employment and social affairs should be involved in the process in order to provide constructive support and input to the evaluation of applications to mobilise the fund.
in writing. - i am pleased that the application, justified by a loss of market share in shipping in europe, has been approved in favour of 950 exubers operated by odense steel shipyard, a major international shipping company. apart from the specific case, i believe it is important to take into account in the future revision of the egf regulation the behaviour of multinational companies, whose relocation leads to redundancies and the consequent intervention of the egf, without, however, compromising workers' access to the support provided.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 may 2011 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this application relates to the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 14 181 901 for denmark. the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a complaint lodged by a german undertaking concerning the failure of the commission to comply with the requirements of the directive. the commission has assessed that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and therefore recommends that the budgetary authority approve it. the egf was set up in 2006 with the objective of 'providing additional support to redundant workers affected by the consequences of large structural changes in world trade patterns, to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market'. following a revision of this regulation in 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − on 6 may, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the present application, the fifth under the 2011 budget, concerns 1 356 redundancies, of which 950 were eligible for assistance, in odense steel shipyard, a shipbuilding company in the southern region of denmark, during the four-month reference period from 13 april to 31 july 2010. i voted in favour of this text to allow the approval of this funding.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the fund, as the application submitted by the danish company glasfiber appears to meet the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation. in addition, the commission recommended to the budgetary authority to approve the application by requesting a transfer from the egf reserve. it is also recalled that the joint declaration of the parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008 confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. − the report concerns the request to mobilise the solidarity fund submitted by slovenia, croatia and the czech republic following the heavy rainfall in august-september 2010 in these three countries. since the report raises no procedural problems and the requests from the three countries meet the eligibility criteria, i voted in favour.
in writing. - we support the decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund, up to a maximum of eur 1 billion per year, for croatia, slovenia and the czech republic following the heavy rainfall and flooding that affected these three countries last year. the disaster caused extensive damage to infrastructure, agriculture, businesses and private property, forcing people to flee their homes. we believe that, as the disaster is of natural origin, the request should be examined under the criterion of the so-called 'extraordinary regional disaster', which provides that a region affected by an extraordinary disaster, mainly of natural origin, which has affected the majority of the population, with profound and lasting repercussions on living conditions and economic stability of the region, may exceptionally benefit from the fund's assistance.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, heavy rains caused considerable damage in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic in 2010. after almost a year, the european parliament is approving the mobilisation of funds for these states. in accordance with the principle of solidarity, which allocates specific funds to those countries affected by natural disasters, the european parliament, in the report by mr böge, which i voted in favour of, has committed itself to providing more than eur 200 million to the countries affected by the floods to enable the reconstruction of the damaged areas.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu has set up the european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with regions affected by natural disasters. the agreement allows the mobilisation of eu solidarity. in the second half of last year, slovenia, croatia and the czech republic requested assistance from the european solidarity fund following heavy rainfall in august and september 2010. after verifying that all applications complied with the eligibility criteria, the commission proposed to mobilise the second solidarity fund in 2011. in parallel to the proposal for mobilisation, the commission presented a draft amending budget (pb no 2/2011) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment in the 2011 budget. the commission proposed to include 'fresh money' in the budget, in line with the joint declaration on payment appropriations annexed to the 2011 budget. the council, on the other hand, envisages the redistribution of payments for the full amount of the budget lines, the completion of the esf and regional assistance under the ipa, instead of a budgetary reinforcement proposed by the commission. in order to enable these countries to benefit from the european union solidarity fund, i am voting in favour of the proposal under consideration.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and the czech republic, which were hit by severe floods in 2010 which caused extensive damage. in parallel to this proposal, the commission presented a draft amending budget to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2011 budget. i voted in favour of this text to allow the european parliament to approve its financing.
in writing. − the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and the czech republic aims to provide funding for these countries following the flood damage caused by the heavy rainfall from 17 to 20 september 2010. as the overall damage is below the normal threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund, the request was examined under the criterion of 'extraordinary regional disaster', which defines the conditions for mobilising the solidarity fund 'in exceptional circumstances'. according to those criteria, a region affected by an extraordinary disaster, mainly of natural origin, which has affected the majority of the population and had a profound and lasting impact on living conditions and economic stability in that region, may exceptionally benefit from the assistance of the fund. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i believe that funding should be provided to deal with the damage suffered by slovenia, croatia and the czech republic.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report by mrs sidonia jędrzejewska on draft amending budget no 2/2011 which will make it possible to finance slovenia, croatia and the czech republic to provide aid following the severe floods in 2010. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european union solidarity fund to be mobilised up to a maximum of eur 1 billion per year. however, under article 37 (1) of the financial regulation, 'in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances', the commission is allowed to present draft amending budgets. that is what the rapporteur has proposed in the report we are voting on today. the direct damage suffered by slovenia, the czech republic and croatia was estimated at eur 19 546 647 in total, which was the amount requested in the draft amending budget approved today.
in writing. − we believe that in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, draft amending budgets should be presented. the activation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) allows the fund to be used for up to eur 1 billion per year and its purpose is the restoration of infrastructure. as a refinancing instrument, it cannot therefore be used to compensate private individuals for the damage they have suffered. in slovenia, direct damage exceeds the normal threshold of 0.6% of gni required to benefit from the solidarity fund and can be described as a 'serious natural disaster'. however, as regards the czech republic and croatia, whose direct damage does not exceed the normal threshold, article 2 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 has been applied, according to which, exceptionally, a neighbouring country that has been affected by the same disaster may also benefit from eusf assistance. as an eu candidate country, croatia will therefore be eligible for the fund. finally, we believe that the unused appropriations of the economic recovery plan should be reallocated, i.e. to finance the need to mobilise the eusf, to create a negative reserve and to increase the payment appropriations for the egf.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs elżbieta jędrzejewska to allow the final allocation of the solidarity funds for the natural disasters in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic. the principle of solidarity with those affected by disasters is a fundamental principle, but a good solution must be found in order to obtain the necessary funds, and the draft amending budget is the instrument through which parliament can give the green light for the allocation of funds. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 19.5 million to the energy sector, not by increasing the member states' contribution by providing additional funds (a solution which the member states have opposed), but by financing energy projects which are so late in their implementation that they require a new allocation of funds.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, the commission may present draft amending budgets. on 25 march the commission presented draft amending budget no 2/2011 to the 2011 general budget which aims to mobilise eu solidarity in order to mitigate the effects of heavy rainfall in slovenia, the czech republic and croatia during the summer of 2010. the conditions for eligibility for the fund are laid down in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing the european union solidarity fund. it should also be recalled that the purpose of the fund is the restoration of infrastructure and that as a refinancing instrument it cannot be used to compensate for damage suffered by private individuals. the authorities of slovenia, the czech republic and croatia estimated the total direct damage at eur 19 546 647. as regards slovenia, the direct damage is above the normal threshold for recourse to the solidarity fund and can be described as a 'serious natural disaster'. the czech republic and croatia, on the other hand, have direct losses below the normal threshold. in order to ensure that these countries benefit from the solidarity of the eu, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and the czech republic, which were hit by severe floods in 2010 which caused extensive damage. in parallel to this proposal, the commission presented a draft amending budget to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2011 budget. i voted in favour of this text to allow the european parliament to approve its financing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, as the abovementioned draft budget aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the financial year 2010, amounting to eur 4 539 394 283. the overall contribution of the member states to the budget of the european union for 2011 will therefore be reduced as a result of unavoidable or exceptional circumstances as provided for in article 37 of the financial regulation.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the ongoing process of globalisation of world markets. this fund is in favour of the workers and does not want to act in any way for the benefit of the company which made the redundancies. as regards the mobilisation of the fund for the case in question, i voted in favour because there are no criticisms and the application meets the eligibility criteria. denmark requests the mobilisation of eur 6 247 415 in respect of 1 650 excesses.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for denmark because i consider this instrument to be a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. since 2006, the european globalisation adjustment fund has provided concrete support for european workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. the report put to the vote today concerns a request for support for 1650 redundancies, of which 825 were admitted to assistance, in the enterprise lm glasfiber operating in nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in southern denmark (syddanmark) during the four-month reference period from 1 january to 30 april 2010. the total amount of funding was eur 6 247 415.
in writing. - we support the adoption of the commission decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of lm glasfiber workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the fund will not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. we believe that a number of factors should be taken into account, including: the link between redundancies and major structural changes in world trade flows or the financial crisis; the identification of firms which have made redundancies and of workers eligible for assistance; the territory concerned with the respective authorities and stakeholders; the impact of redundancies on local, regional or national employment; the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed; the actual or planned start dates of personalised services for the workers concerned and the procedures for consulting the social partners and the management and control systems. we believe that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria and that the committee on employment and social affairs should be involved in the process in order to provide constructive support and input to the evaluation of applications to mobilise the fund.
in writing. - i welcome the approval of the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the funds requested will provide support for 825 workers made redundant by the glasfiber company operating in the wind turbine manufacturing sector in the syddanmark region. the european labour market requires a joint effort by the european institutions to boost employment. the european commission has given a strong signal in this regard by proposing an amendment to the egf regulation, in order to extend the coverage of the fund to workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis until 2013.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. the fund may not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. on 6 may 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the application concerns 1 650 redundancies (of which 825 were eligible for assistance) in lm glasfiber. the commission's assessment was based on the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade flows, taking into account the financial crisis, the unforeseen nature of the redundancies in question, the demonstration of the number of redundancies and the compliance with the criteria. according to that assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and the commission therefore recommends that the budgetary authority approve it. in order to ensure a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − on 6 may 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the application concerns 1 650 redundant workers (of whom 825 were eligible for assistance) in lm glasfiber, an undertaking operating in southern denmark (syddanmark). i voted in favour of this text today to allow the european parliament to approve the financing.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the fund, as the application submitted by the danish company steel shipyard appears to meet the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation. in addition, the commission recommended to the budgetary authority to approve the application by requesting a transfer from the egf reserve. it is also recalled that the joint declaration of the parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008 confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. - the challenges facing our societies and countries today, such as terrorism, illegal immigration and crossborder crime, are worth every effort on our part and on the part of europe. i share the need to establish bodies to facilitate the exchange of data and information between member states and between public security authorities. i therefore vote in favour of the coelho report, sharing the opportunity of setting up the new agency - a technical and non-political agency - which will be a support in the regular work of exchanging information between member countries.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the proposal is to establish an agency responsible for various systems in the field of information technology. i agree with the rapporteur on the single location of the facility, the staff and the data protection officer. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − we agree with the establishment of a new agency for the management of new large-scale information technology systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, whose tasks will be exclusively technical and operational management. the agency will not have the power to take policy decisions on, for example, the creation of new systems or the interoperability between different systems. we therefore believe that it is necessary to establish rules to avoid the de facto extension of its powers through the proliferation of pilot projects, without control or transparency. the agency will therefore be responsible for the supervision and security of the communication infrastructure and will ensure a comprehensive network for the exchange of information. it will therefore be essential to protect the network from any threat and to ensure the security of personal data. the legal framework of the various systems to be managed by that agency applies to a diverse set of member states with different levels of participation and to several associated third states. finally, we believe that the role of the european parliament must be clearly defined and strengthened to ensure adequate democratic control.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr coelho's report because i believe that the operational management of sensitive personal data and large-scale information should be supervised by an agency specialising in information technology systems which guarantee freedom, security and justice in the flow of information. this agency will be responsible for the supervision and security of the communication infrastructure, will protect information technology systems in a transparent and exclusive manner, while maintaining democratic principles of management and flow of published data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the only way to bring clarity to the operational management of information technology systems within the framework of the area of freedom, security and justice is to establish a european agency ex novo. a european agency with technical and operational data management tasks cannot take the form of an executive agency managed by the european commission, because in that case, in addition to being a temporary solution, the legislator would be denied the power to organise it and to exercise democratic control. finally, i believe it is essential to orientate the regulation establishing the agency towards strengthening the role of the european parliament in its creation and management, and towards maximum protection and integrity of personal data.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report on the establishment of an agency for the operational management of large-scale information technology systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the aim is to establish an agency responsible for the joint operational management of information systems that maintain a high level of security, including public security, and a visa information system to support consulates and other competent authorities. the report also aims at the creation of a european computer system designed to determine which state is competent to assess asylum applications lodged by a third country national in a member state. i share the view that the tasks and obligations of this agency should be recognized as purely technical and not political.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the council proposal for the granting of special treatment to certain products in the french overseas departments. the reasons which led the french authorities to request a separate scheme, accompanied by partial or total exemptions from duties depending on the product, are shared. these are the so-called outermost regions, where social and geographical difficulties are combined with production which is usually concentrated in certain categories of goods. i therefore agree with the granting of a special tariff regime, since in similar cases it is right to use these means to ensure the economic and social stability of these regions.
in writing. - we agree with the european council that specific measures should be introduced to assist the outermost regions, in view of their particular economic and social situation. the existence of permanent disadvantages such as insularity, remoteness of large markets, small size, mountainousness, difficult climatic conditions and economic dependence on a limited number of products seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the implementation of appropriate measures. this is the basis for the 'maritime duties' scheme, which authorises france to provide for the application, until 1 july 2014, in its four overseas departments, of a differentiated taxation scheme for 'maritime duties' in favour of certain local products. we believe that the 'sea duty' is an important instrument for the stability of the economy of the outermost regions, as it allows local production and employment to be maintained and is a valuable support for investment policies for local development. we also support the definitive implementation of these measures so that the outermost regions concerned do not find themselves in economic insecurity every ten years. we therefore call for the exemptions or reductions in the imposition of 'maritime duties' granted to the french overseas departments to be maintained beyond 2014.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, the remoteness of the large markets, the small size, the mountainousness and the difficult climatic conditions, as well as economic dependence on a limited number of products, seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the implementation of appropriate measures. this requires the introduction of specific measures for the outermost regions, taking into account the economic and social situation of these regions. this is the basis for the 'maritime duties' scheme, which authorises france to provide for the application in the four french overseas departments, until 1 july 2014, of a differentiated taxation scheme for 'maritime duties' in favour of certain local products of those departments. the 'sea duty' is of fundamental importance for the stability of the economy of the outermost regions concerned: the commission has also proposed that the 'sea duties' be increased to cover the costs of the transport of goods and services by sea, in order to maintain local production and employment. the revenue from the 'sea duties' accounts for almost half of the budget of local communities in the overseas departments and is intended to provide a key support for investment policies for local development, and this should continue to be the case. i am voting in favour of the development of these regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it can help to support the development of certain maritime regions which suffer from permanent handicaps such as insularity, remoteness of the major markets, small surface area, mountainousness and difficult climatic conditions. the 'maritime duties' scheme allows france to provide for the application in the four french overseas departments of a differentiated 'maritime duties' taxation scheme until 1 july 2014 in favour of certain local products of those departments. the report adopted today suggests that guyana may extend the list of products eligible for differentiated taxation to some 50 products. the commission should consider the instruments for the final implementation of these measures beyond 2014 in order to avoid the outermost regions concerned being left in a situation of economic insecurity every 10 years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapti own-initiative report because i believe it has given a critical and constructive assessment of recent developments in universal service (i.e. the minimum set of services of specified quality to which all end-users are entitled to access at an affordable price, including universal access to broadband) and the issue of the single european emergency number 112. for example, the report stresses that making broadband mandatory will not automatically lead to greater broadband adoption and therefore calls on the commission and member states to step up measures to promote demand and encourage use. i can only agree with the initiative to call on the commission and the member states to step up their information activities further so that 112 is brought to the attention of all eu citizens and travellers through the media, in particular the press and the audiovisual media, through information campaigns presenting it as the eu-wide emergency number.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the '112 universal service and emergency number' because i believe it has wide-ranging implications for various aspects of citizens' lives. in particular, the report provides a broad assessment of developments in the so-called universal services, of which the european emergency number 112 is the most important. i think it is extremely important to have a single emergency number to call in all the countries of the union, also in view of the approach of the summer period during which many europeans travel to a different country for tourism and holidays. in addition, the rapti report analyses developments in several other areas related to public health and services to citizens, among which i would like to highlight the facilitation of access to broadband, which takes into account the needs of the most vulnerable and disabled, favouring them in terms of the provision of services, materials and reduced rates.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs rapti which aims to improve accessibility to the european emergency number 112. in a european union where people are increasingly travelling for business or pleasure, millions of people could be in an emergency situation; and the fact that we have a single number at european level is certainly a great help. among the aspects which the report intends to assess, i consider very important the coordination of approaches and its financing, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable people and consumers with disabilities. in addition, the 112 number does not replace the national emergency numbers, but provides a parallel service.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mrs sylvana rapti on the development of universal service also takes account of the specific needs of vulnerable people and consumers with disabilities. in view of the importance of the subject and the sensitivity with which it has been dealt with, the vote in favour is confirmed.
in writing. - how many europeans know that 112 is the european emergency number which can be called free of charge from landlines and mobile phones anywhere in the union? according to a very recent eurobarometer survey, only 26 percent; 58% feel that their fellow citizens do not have adequate information about it. in today's vote parliament urges the commission to strengthen the '112' service so as to ensure its smooth operation in all member states. it is also essential that this number is really accessible to the most vulnerable categories: who have hearing or speech or other disabilities. member states must also engage in information and communication campaigns using the most appropriate places for dissemination such as schools, universities, pharmacies, clinics, stations, airports, etc. the establishment of the 'european 112 day', to be held on 11 february each year, will also help to promote this emergency number, which, once established, will be a real lifesaver.
in writing. − the single european emergency number 112 is a service that aims to ensure quick and free access to emergency services for all citizens in europe, thus greatly simplifying the availability of the service, especially for those abroad. the adoption of the rapti report is the european parliament's response to the lack of awareness and knowledge of the potential of this service among european citizens, a misinformation that is undoubtedly a cause for concern. the ep resolution aims to create an effective information and awareness campaign in key locations such as doctors' offices, pharmacies, schools, airports and railway stations, and calls for the single service to be improved in quality, efficiency and accessibility, ensuring easy access for disabled and vulnerable people too. by providing clear guidelines to the commission on how to improve the use of the universal service, we have taken a step forward in protecting citizens living and travelling in the union, with a particular focus on social geographical inclusion.
in writing. - since 1991, 112 has been the european emergency number, enabling many citizens to receive help in situations of extreme need. voting today in favour of mrs rapti's report means ensuring that this aid instrument, which has helped to save many lives, is strengthened to the point where it is known and used in all eu countries as the single number to call to contact the emergency services anywhere in the union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the promotion of broadband investment can also be of great importance for the full use of the number '112' in a uniform manner in all countries and in all areas that are often difficult to reach (mountain, rural and island) in order to protect citizens by providing them with the right to prompt and appropriate assistance.
in writing. − we believe that the spread and affordable access to basic telecommunications services is important in order to promote social inclusion and competitiveness in the eu. our aim is to make broadband available to all european citizens by 2013, while being careful not to impose any additional burden on them. we believe that the following are necessary: the commission will continue to support the development of the digital single market, enhanced interoperability, confidence and security on the internet, much faster access to the network, increased investment in research and development, improved digital literacy, skills and inclusion, and the application of information and communication technologies to address societal challenges. in 1991, the creation of the single european emergency number 112 gave european citizens access to all telecommunications services allowing voice calls to national emergency numbers. we still believe that a better campaign of information and awareness-raising is needed to inform citizens about the functionalities of the 112 number, because of the poor quality of service that this number has offered them so far. finally, we support the commission's decision to carry out an in-depth study on the provision of internet services.
in writing. - dear colleagues, every three years the european commission reviews the scope of the universal service directive to adapt it to new needs and to the technological contribution that is increasingly essential for supporting citizens. the purpose of the universal service and the single european emergency number (112 - a single number for all eu countries) is to improve the safety net where basic social services are not guaranteed, to prevent social exclusion by ensuring access to essential services for people in rural areas and low-income groups, and to improve access to emergency services for the disabled. i have spoken in favour of this because i also believe that 112 and the emergency services in general should be given the importance and publicity they deserve for the role they can play in everyday life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is useful to encourage policies which promote the possibility of adapting certain types of services to the needs of the times without introducing additional burdens on citizens. the single european emergency number '112' must be given the support it deserves if it is to make a real difference to the lives of citizens. the poor quality of service they have received must also be remedied. as regards consumer goods markets, i welcome the european commission's decision to carry out an in-depth study of internet service provision following the publication of the fourth edition of the consumer goods benchmark.
in writing. − i am in favour of this own-initiative report as it aims to assess recent developments in the universal service, including access to broadband, the coordination of approaches and its financing, taking into account the needs of people with disabilities. the report also addresses the issue of the single european emergency number '112', which aims to make the service accessible to disabled users and to improve its management through new technological platforms. promoting social inclusion and competitiveness are some of the areas towards which europe is moving in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - my vote for this report on a more efficient and fairer retail market was in favour. the document expresses and defends many of the principles that the lega nord has always put at the heart of its policy, in particular with regard to the defence of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and small businesses. among the various points made in the report, i particularly welcomed the points expressing the concern of smes about the growth of shopping centres and the decline of local shops and markets. similarly, i particularly appreciated the intention of the report to stress that smes are the backbone of the european economy and that they play a unique role in job creation and i appreciated the intention of the rapporteur to denounce those unfair practices which affect small traders and, in many cases, consumers themselves. for the reasons stated above, my vote was decidedly in favour.
in writing. - i appreciate the spirit of this report, which seeks to support the removal of obstacles to the free movement of goods and services. i voted in favour of this document, which also has the merit of wanting to relax the current legislation and to suppress the national restrictive measures, which are often harmful and burdensome for smes. the eu must take decisive action to remove protectionist barriers that restrict access for businesses to the single market; at the same time, all initiatives that reduce the dominant position of a few players in the market, thus guaranteeing contractual freedom and protecting consumers, should be encouraged. i agree with the line suggested by the rapporteur in creating a self-regulatory system that sees retailers and the supply chain as parties, while the eu will have to engage in public-private partnership actions. finally, there is a need to increase the spread of electronic commerce, which can reduce the distance between consumers and products, and to introduce policies aimed at restoring confidence in the economic system through the harmonisation of payments within the eu, ensuring that businesses no longer have a fragmented and burdensome system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr corazza bildt because it represents a significant step forward in the modernisation of the retail and distribution sector. i particularly welcome the 'non-regulatory' approach proposed by the rapporteur, which emphasizes the exploration of other means before resorting to new legislation. the report shows that the appropriate rules exist, but that the free movement of goods is hampered by their inadequate application. at the same time, the interests of european traders and entrepreneurs must be protected by a fully functioning single market, removing the barriers that hinder its proper functioning. in this connection, two important documents are worth mentioning which help to stimulate the growth of operators in the sector: the single market act and the small business act, which aim to 'make life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises' by reducing the administrative burden on them. all this must be seen in the context of the principle of subsidiarity. finally, particular importance should be given to the section on improving efficiency and sustainability, encouraging the retail sector to invest in innovative solutions for logistics and transport, energy efficiency, and packaging and waste disposal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the retail trade sector is a growth engine for the european internal market and at the same time a means of ensuring greater transparency and easy comparability of final prices for consumers. in view of this multifaceted and strategic role, i gave my full support to the report by mrs corazza bildt, since it is necessary to take legislative action as soon as possible on a sector which, i recall, allows access to goods and services in difficult areas (rural, mountainous, sparsely populated areas, etc.) where the presence of small retailers and local markets is a service to the community. i hope that the process under way in the member states to implement the directives (delayed payments, e-commerce, services, etc.) which this parliament has already considered to be important for the european market will be completed. finally, by voting in favour, i believe i have made an important contribution to that process of simplification and reduction of administrative burdens for european retailers as well, thus removing obstacles and constraints that could slow down growth and job creation in the eu.
in writing. − we believe that the time has come to concentrate all our efforts on free movement and free establishment throughout europe, fair, balanced and transparent trade relations, in order to promote more sustainable consumption. we believe that to bring greater efficiency and fairness to the retail chain, so that consumers can benefit from a more integrated market, we need: overcoming obstacles to the free movement of goods and services; increasing trust in online commerce; facilitate access to justice systems and apply alternative means of dispute resolution. the sector should also invest further in innovative solutions for logistics and transport, energy efficiency, as well as packaging and waste disposal. finally, we believe that a european action plan is needed, capable of developing a policy framework with specific proposals, with a more pragmatic approach, a more constructive dialogue between all the parties concerned and a careful monitoring of voluntary initiatives by the eu institutions. a firm commitment is needed against all trade barriers, restrictions of any kind at national level and all direct and indirect infringements of the internal market rules, through sanctions and infringement procedures.
in writing. - i wanted to give my full support to this report, as it contains many interesting and useful points. retail trade is certainly a pillar of the european economy, with solid roots that also made it possible to cope with the crisis better than other sectors. however, there are still several problems, starting with the difficulty of the smaller ones remaining on the market, due to the ever-present tendency to facilitate large-scale distribution: it is therefore right that the report should highlight these problems and encourage the protection and development of small businesses, which are indispensable engines of growth and employment in rural and peripheral areas. i would also like to point out that the report makes explicit reference to the street vendors, who are victims, like other categories, of a possible unfortunate application of the 'services directive': the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this same point could also be extended to the bathing sector, which is also a victim of the "bolkestein": the vote today, which expresses the concern of the whole european parliament, i certainly regard as a good omen.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs bildt's report on more effective and fairer retail trade because i believe that better regulation is needed in this area. the report supports retail trade by supporting the interests of some 20 million workers across europe in order to create more job opportunities by removing those bureaucratic obstacles which make retail trade between countries more onerous. the attempt is to eliminate trade barriers by simplifying the rules which, in addition to giving more room for manoeuvre to small businesses, private individuals, service providers, etc., would safeguard their survival by providing for an expansion of employment opportunities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to promote employment, smes and freedom of movement and establishment throughout the community in order to remove the existing trade barriers in the union. retail trade, a pillar of the european economy, accounting for 4.2% of the eu's gdp, should be enhanced by a european action plan based on fair and transparent trade relations and sustainable consumption. the fragmentation of the rules on movement and the restrictive national measures result in bureaucratic obstacles to free trade. similarly, payment systems within the eu should also be harmonised. finally, unlocking the potential of electronic commerce would help to reduce the current distance between consumers and producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 3/2011, which proposes to account for and enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the financial year 2010 and, consequently, to reduce the overall contribution of the member states to the budget of the european union for the next financial year. the commission is proposing to redistribute a positive balance of over eur 4.5 billion between the member states in the form of a reduction in the contribution planned for next year. i think it is worth pointing out that, while it is true that a reduction in the national contribution is helpful, especially in a period of economic crisis, we must not think that this is a prerequisite for a reduction in the overall budget in the future. the surpluses which have allowed a reduction in the contribution for the next financial year are the result of the implementation of the competition policy and the result of fines and interest on late payments, so that these revenues could be entered in the union budget without affecting the revenue from national payments. it is necessary to create a legal basis enabling the eu to treat these surpluses as its own resources so that they can be used in the public-private partnership system to build the infrastructure considered as a priority in the telecommunications, transport and energy sectors.
in writing. − i support the council's position by voting in favour of draft amending budget no 3/2011. i hope that in future the surplus from fines and interest will be reinvested in the union budget. this possibility has no legal basis yet, but i think it is important to bring this forward in future negotiations with the council on the multiannual budget.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european union's 2010 budget closed with a positive balance of €4.5 billion. the budget surplus requires corrective action to return the excess money to the member states through the reduction of the contributions planned for 2012. i voted in favour of the report on the draft amending budget precisely because the union's accounts, which have been in surplus for several years and show an overestimation of the forecasts, must be brought back into line. some member states think that the budget should be reduced, while the idea of withholding these funds emerges from the parliamentary debate.
in writing. − as this report underlines, dishonest crossborder economic operators continue to threaten the interests of european consumers and traders. the rapporteur's proposed objective is to support the commission's efforts to protect consumers and traders, in particular by simplifying and harmonising administrative processes to detect and tackle intra-eu infringements. the proposals in the document coincide with the political line of the lega nord, which has always considered the fight against market illicit activities as its top priority. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. − we agree with this regulation, which aims to remove obstacles to crossborder cooperation between public authorities responsible for enforcing legislation designed to detect, investigate, bring to an end or prohibit intra-community infringements of consumer protection legislation. this will increase their confidence in crossborder offers, preventing traders and suppliers from evading the application of the rules, of course at the expense of the competitiveness of law-abiding traders and suppliers. we believe that the current sectoral approach to consumer policy initiatives does not facilitate consistent application. the commission should therefore be given a greater role in coordinating the implementation of pan-european activities. we also believe that in order to promote greater consumer protection in europe, the scope of this regulation should be extended to take account of the existing body of eu legislation on the subject, but in a more global and horizontal way. finally, the cross-border enforcement of consumer interests should be one of the political priorities of the union. enhanced cooperation between national enforcement authorities should become a more effective tool for european consumers to increase their confidence in the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of amending regulation 2006/2004 as i believe it is essential, at this time of international crisis, to strengthen consumer confidence in crossborder offers to the detriment of those fraudulent operators who circumvent national and european regulations. the uniformity of national legislation in this field is desirable in order to safeguard fair competition and to allow for certain and timely checks. the commission has a key role to play in protecting consumers and the market itself. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the regulation as a whole needs to be revised decisively and in a short time, also in the light of the significant differences between the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the crossborder enforcement of consumer interests should be one of the political priorities of the union. the results of current crossborder cooperation on enforcement suggest that further action should be taken. the problems identified so far in the application of the regulation should be resolved by accepting the commission's technical proposal and asking the commission to evaluate the effectiveness of the operational mechanisms of the regulation. it is also necessary that the commission submit, within a reasonable time, a legislative proposal aimed at a more substantial revision of the existing regulation, including the extension of its scope. finally, enhanced cooperation between national enforcement authorities should be made a more effective tool for european consumers to increase their confidence in the internal market.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report on the proposal to amend the regulation on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation. the policy question is whether the current regulation provides a sufficiently valid framework for the cross-border application of the consumer acquis. the line of action identified is to propose a 'revision clause', asking the commission to carry out an effectiveness assessment and to submit within a reasonable time a legislative proposal aimed at a more substantial revision by 2014.
in writing. − the concerns raised by the financial market crisis must continue to be addressed in europe in the ongoing monitoring of the stability and risk reduction of the speculative products sector such as derivatives. in view of the responsibilities of hidden financial engineering and the disconnect between the real economy and investment, i can only welcome mr langen's report.
in writing. the vote on the langen report on otc derivatives further reinforces the european parliament's priority to regulate financial markets and to combat speculation, the main factor in market instability at a time of crisis. parliament adopted its first reading position on the proposal for a regulation, in line with the commission's and the g20's mandate, which calls for a strengthening of the system for the operation of over-the-counter derivatives in order to ensure greater transparency and risk management. it is necessary to provide the european and national competent authorities with all the tools necessary to supervise and control the derivatives market, including more information on the nature of derivatives transactions and contracts concluded between counterparties. the council is now expected to be open on this subject, overcoming divisions between member states, in order to ensure that the overall reform of european financial markets is completed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the eu must aim to create greater stability and transparency in financial markets by strengthening the discipline of financial instruments and coordination with major international partners. it is necessary to establish uniform requirements for derivative contracts and for the performance of the activities of ccps and data repositories. as regards the derogations from the application of the regulation, i believe that exemptions are only possible after more thorough market research and should in any case be based on international standards.
in writing. − the g20 concluded that, with regard to the resilience and transparency of the otc derivatives market, all standardised otc derivative contracts should be traded on exchanges or, where appropriate, on electronic trading platforms and cleared through central counterparties by the end of 2012 at the latest. in addition, otc derivative contracts will have to be notified to trade repositories. i therefore voted in favour of the report because the regulation in question, which promotes the resilience and transparency of the derivatives market, must also maintain the efficiency of these markets for investment by users, whether financial or non-financial. the maintenance of the international nature of this market promotes both objectives if it is based on cooperation between supervisory authorities and on convergent international criteria.
in writing. - we support the need to improve the supplementary supervision of financial undertakings belonging to a conglomerate. the supervisory authorities must be able to exercise their supervision of financial holding companies in a manner similar to that used for financial holding companies (banking sector) and insurance holding companies. it is also necessary to ensure that the european supervisory authorities issue general guidelines for the supervision of financial conglomerates through the joint committee; the transparency of the supervision of financial conglomerates should be improved, including through the publication of the list and structure of financial conglomerates; define mixed financial holding companies and include them in supplementary supervision; introduce stress tests at the level of each financial conglomerate and extend the scope to alternative investment fund managers. we believe that coordination at european level is necessary to make this adjustment binding.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i have agreed with mr stolojan's report because i think it is most appropriate to align the supervisory powers at parent company level introduced by the financial conglomerates directive with those deriving from the banking and insurance sector specific directives. i also welcome the fact that the proposal is approved at first reading. in these times of crisis, it has become clear that supervision is important and fundamental in order to prevent and act in time to avoid damage or to try to contain it. the directive is therefore crucial and a step in the right direction in removing obstacles to the prudential supervision of financial conglomerates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the supervisory authorities must be able to exercise their supervision of financial holding companies in a manner similar to that used for insurance holding companies. in the future, the commission intends to undertake a more in-depth review of this framework in the light of developments in supplementary supervision. although this directive does not seem to prohibit member states from adapting their legislation in order to exercise this prerogative over such mixed financial holding companies, coordination at european level is useful in order to make such adaptation binding.
in writing. - the report on the directive on the supplementary supervision of financial undertakings in a financial conglomerate, amending the previous ones, i voted in favour. i believe that the general guidelines for the supervision of financial conglomerates should be promoted through the joint committee by the european supervisory authorities. it is also necessary to improve the transparency of the supervision of financial conglomerates, including through the publication of the list and structure of financial conglomerates. in addition, the definition of mixed financial holding companies and their inclusion in supplementary supervision should be laid down; therefore, the introduction of stress tests at the level of each financial conglomerate and the extension of the scope to alternative investment fund managers is necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr stolojan, since it aims to remedy a problem which has become particularly evident during the financial crisis of recent years. it is important that supervisory authorities are able to exercise their supervision of financial holding companies in a manner similar to that used for financial holding companies such as those in the banking sector and insurance holding companies.
in writing. - the responsibility of finance and its products, as established by the scientific and academic community, in the face of the crisis which has brought the european economy to its knees, puts the problem of supervision and its efficiency at the heart of all action aimed at protecting consumers and guaranteeing their confidence. the creation of mechanisms for transparency and the implementation of a sanctioning framework to be applied in the event of infringement of the provisions of the regulation highlight a hard line and austerity that is certainly to be shared, but i am waiting for an assessment of the impact of certain articles of the measure on our territory and that is why i have chosen the line of abstention.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, reading the newspapers in recent months, terms such as short selling or credit default swaps have unfortunately entered the common language and not for good reasons. they have been the instruments through which this harmful speculation has been and is being carried on, to the detriment of our states and our citizens. that is why it is important that regulations are put in place, but they must be careful and not be the result of an emergency. i therefore agree that the trilogue should be continued in order to try to achieve a balanced and shared text which does not demonize these practices. the original text of the proposal was rather restrictive and was, in fact, intended to block this type of activity. the text voted on in the econ committee is much more balanced, thanks to a number of amendments. the only point of concern at the moment is article 12, which provides for restrictions on naked or uncovered short selling, including cds. i really hope that the trilogue will reach a shared and balanced agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because it aims to harmonise the member states' rules on short selling, eliminating the differences which currently exist and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. short selling is a common practice in most financial markets and, although it mainly involves the buying and selling of shares, it often occurs in connection with the sale of other types of financial instruments such as government bonds. the text adopted today introduces common transparency obligations at eu level and harmonises the powers that regulators can use in exceptional situations of serious threat to financial stability or market confidence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on short selling and credit default swaps, since it aims to harmonise the member states' short selling rules in order to eliminate the differences which currently exist and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. it also introduces common transparency obligations at eu level and harmonises the powers that regulators can use in exceptional situations, i.e. in the event of a serious threat to financial stability or market confidence.
in writing. - the report under discussion today is of particular importance as it provides for the amendment of directive 97/9/ec of the european parliament and of the council on investor-compensation schemes. i welcome the amendment of the directive currently in force, provided that the new union rules are aimed at increasing the harmonisation and integration of the european single market, strengthening consumer protection and improving financial stability within the union. i agree with the rapporteur that stricter common rules are needed not only to ensure higher levels of cover to protect investors and faster and more efficient repayments but, above all, to finance the systems at national level: those who make crossborder investments should enjoy the same level of protection in all member states. in my view, in a globalised market such as the present one, we cannot ignore the need to improve the harmonisation of investor compensation systems at eu level. i believe that only by achieving this objective can the level of protection of european investors be improved, helping to ensure a level playing field for them in the internal market for financial services and at the same time strengthening the european single market.
in writing. − the new eu rules should increase the harmonisation and integration of the single market in investment. in order to strengthen consumer protection, generate greater investor confidence and improve overall financial stability, higher levels of coverage are necessary and it is necessary to harmonise investor financing and compensation systems across the union in the long term. as regards the latter, we believe that the coverage of investor compensation schemes should be extended to firms authorized to make investments of any kind and in any form. we are in favour of total harmonization rather than a minimum one, in order to strengthen the protection of those involved and avoid the risk of arbitration between member states. we also believe that a principle of 'risk-sharing' should be included in this directive, whereby contributions for each member are determined on the basis of the degree of risk taken by the undertaking. in order to avoid that some member states reduce the size of their funds, the loan facility should only be launched when the funds of all systems have sufficient financial resources and should only be started after all systems have reached the target level of funding.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must restore confidence in investment and i believe that this report is a step in the right direction. an investor shall be protected to the maximum extent against the possible risks of bankruptcy of the holders of its deposits: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the compensation guarantee threshold is increased, with adequate and risk-adjusted financing. harmonisation at european level is also necessary to prevent and avoid market distortions; the commission has also proposed that crossborder investments be allowed the same protections as national investments. the security and stability of markets are essential to restoring consumer confidence, and the work of the new european authority, esma, can and must contribute to this. i hope that this package of measures will be useful in getting investment going again and with it the whole european economy.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr schmidt's report. the proposal for a directive, which follows the one on deposit guarantee schemes (dgs) for banks, amends the system of compensation for investors in the event of the insolvency of intermediaries (investment firms, but also credit institutions) by laying down a series of rules on the amount guaranteed and the system of contributions. i regret that, given the distance between our positions, we were unable to reach agreement at first reading and that we will now have to proceed to a difficult second reading. i believe that this sector too must be regulated as quickly as possible in a way that is appropriate and harmonized throughout europe.
in writing. the report on 'investor compensation schemes' was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the three main objectives of the report are: improve consumer protection through higher levels of coverage, improve the single european market for financial services and harmonise investor compensation schemes across the union, and set sound long-term principles for the financing of investor compensation schemes. the new eu rules should lead to greater harmonisation and integration of the european single market, strengthen consumer protection, generate greater trust between consumers and depositors and thus improve financial stability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the amendments to the directive on investor compensation schemes should be geared to improving consumer protection, with a view to further harmonising the european single market. total harmonisation of the amount of compensation is preferable to harmonisation of the minimum level, as it ensures greater protection for consumers, strengthens investor protection and avoids the risk of arbitration between member states. the harmonization of the financing of compensation schemes is also desirable, provided that the target level of financing is not too high. the funds should cover cases of mismanagement and fraud in relation to depositary receipts.
in writing. - as regards the directive amending the previous one on investor compensation schemes, i voted in favour, as i believe it is essential to improve consumer protection through greater coverage, faster reimbursement and more efficient protection systems. in addition, the functioning of the single european market for financial services needs to be improved and investor compensation schemes across the union need to be harmonised, as well as sound long-term principles for the financing of investor compensation schemes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr schmidt, which aims to achieve further convergence of european compensation systems, in particular by improving consumer protection through higher levels of cover, implementing the harmonisation of investor compensation systems within the union and laying down principles for the financing of investor compensation systems. the text voted on would, in essence, reduce the margin of discretion of the member states, thus protecting european consumers more effectively and more securely. this harmonisation would not only improve the level of guarantee but also affect the methods of financing the systems and the calculation of the contributions to be paid by operators.
in writing. - the discussion was wide-ranging and articulated, with different positions often difficult to reconcile. i voted in favour of the work done by my colleague because she has taken due account of the concerns raised by the member states with regard to the cultivation of gmos. in particular, i think it is important that the possibility of prohibiting or restricting the cultivation of the plant within one's own territory remains: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the need for more coherent and balanced legislation between the system of authorization of gmos on a european basis and the urges of the states to decide autonomously how to implement the standard has created some difficulties in reaching a common position. the principle of subsidiarity remains intact when a state decides to apply legislation that is more stringent than european standards. it is absolutely essential that research on gmos should not be stopped. the sine qua non is that the maximum transparency in consumer knowledge is guaranteed by the traceability of gmo products.
in writing. the european parliament voted today to allow member states to decide for themselves whether to allow or ban gm crops on their territory, based on an examination of the social and environmental impacts that could result. it is well known that there is a deep-rooted mistrust of gm products among european citizens. according to eurobarometer surveys in 2010, around 61% of europeans are uncomfortable with such products and over 53% think they are harmful to their health. this lack of public confidence in these agricultural products cannot be ignored, and at the same time the local agricultural tradition rooted in each member state cannot be forgotten. in fact, it is precisely in the light of these elements that the resolution should not be understood as accepting gmo products, but only as recognizing greater national autonomy to structure an agricultural policy that is better adapted to the territory, to the tradition linked to it and to the sensibilities of the citizens who inhabit it. i hope that this vote will be the beginning of a debate at all levels on the cultivation of gmos in the union.
in writing. − the current european regulations on genetically modified food and feed set a very strict framework which, if properly applied, should allow for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. the directive's requirements for risk assessment are not being met and these shortcomings are the reason why several states oppose the cultivation of gmos on their territory. we believe that environmental assessment and monitoring should be strengthened and that the powers of states should be strengthened in the absence of relevant elements concerning the impact on their national territory. the high level of protection of health and the environment can only be achieved to the extent that member states can effectively have all the necessary studies both on the recipient environment and on the conditions of the surveillance plans. the measures taken by member states should apply to a given gmo or, if necessary, to a group of gmos with similar characteristics rather than to all gmos. such measures must always be justified by the so-called 'scientific criterion' and by any cross-border contamination.
in writing. - i wanted to express my vote in favour of this report, since it fully reflects our position on the cultivation of gmos. i think it is essential that the member states should be free to decide whether or not to cultivate these organisms in the way they consider most appropriate. there may be legitimate environmental, socioeconomic and geographical-territorial reasons which can (and should) allow states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos. i do not want the freedom to grow gmos granted by the european union in this area to be translated into a coercive obligation and thus not to allow for proper distinctions: i want our lands and our tradition, with its world-renowned agricultural excellence, not to be destroyed by the reckless use of artificially modified substances and organisms, which have nothing to do with everything that nature already offers us in abundance.
in writing. - i appreciate the work done by mrs lepage and i believe it is essential that member states increase controls on gm products and the environmental impact that such production may have on the various national ecosystems. the commission must, however, be obliged to follow up these checks, which cannot be left to the national authorities alone: we cannot have gmo products imported or authorised in only a few member states, such as mon 810 maize, and then have them in our diets. i therefore call for greater coordination between the european and national institutions to identify the long-term environmental impacts of genetically modified crops, adjacent crops or on neighbouring land and, above all, the impact on human health through direct consumption and on animal health through the use of feed from products of these crops. we therefore call for a greater commitment from all the institutions to ensure that there is a certain and thorough verification before any type of genetically modified production can be authorized.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the lepage report on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmo products on their territory because i believe that every country in line with european principles should have the possibility of self-regulation in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. many people consider gmos to be dangerous, the general public does not like genetically modified products, but the report in question does not create any problems for the public as it protects and guarantees their health. consumers risk nothing from the product point of view as much as traders from the market point of view. on the contrary, member states are free to introduce specific prohibitions in this way, depending on the case.
in writing. - i share the approach of the rapporteur, mrs lepage, who wants to give member states the power to ban the cultivation of gmos for reasons other than health and environmental reasons, which are the responsibility of efsa. the decision to introduce certain foods or crops cannot be left solely to efsa, as only national authorities can properly assess the environmental and socio-economic impact of certain crops.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs lepage on her excellent work. the european parliament voted today, by an overwhelming majority, in favour of the right of member states (and their regions) to ban the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory, even if they are authorised at community level. this is a clear signal from the european parliament to the council and the commission: the eu authorisation system must be maintained, but it must be recognised that the agricultural and environmental impact, as well as the socioeconomic impact, may justify bans or restrictions by individual states. if this regulation becomes law, it would mean that eu member states could ban or restrict gm crops from their territory on agro-environmental grounds, such as resistance to pesticides, invasiveness of certain crops, or threat to biodiversity. i believe that all member states should take measures to prevent conventional or organic farming from being contaminated by gmos, and also ensure that those responsible for each incident are financially punished. it is now up to eu governments to speak out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is appropriate to allow member states, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, to prohibit or restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory, including for reasons other than adverse effects on health or the environment. the final text gives member states greater discretion as to whether to introduce specific bans, while still ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and at the same time ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. the guarantee of full protection of european consumers, who are often opposed to gmos and their use in agriculture for reasons that go beyond food safety, is nevertheless ensured. the text does not change the situation for countries which, like italy, already do not allow gm crops.
in writing. - on the report on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, i voted in favour because i believe that it is necessary to leave individual member states the opportunity to prohibit the cultivation of gmos for reasons such as environmental protection. i also thought it right that the authorization procedure at european level should not be changed but should rather be supplementary to the decisions taken by individual states, since authorization remains the sole responsibility of the european commission, following the opinion of the eu food safety agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the actual draft of the new hungarian constitution is not acceptable. the hungarian authorities should consider amending the new constitution, particularly its preamble, so that it guarantees equal protection of the rights of every citizen, no matter which religious, sexual, ethnic or other societal group they belong to, and to include in it an explicit declaration on the separation of church and state. with this resolution we recommend the hungarian authorities to explicitly include all fundamental civic and social rights and to ban the death penalty. the primary source of law must provide sufficient guarantees concerning the protection of fundamental rights and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. the hungarian authorities should also ensure the existing guarantees on protection of national minorities, personal data and the transparency of publicly relevant information.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to come forward, as soon as possible and before the end of 2011, with a proposals to achieve a 25% internal greenhouse gas reduction by 2020. one of the key points of the text is its emphasis in calling for more investments in renewable energy and energy infrastructures. the report also stresses the need for the eu to use the appropriate diplomatic means in order to dynamise the international climate negotiations while maintaining the pressure on third countries to deliver their share of global ghg reductions in the future.
in writing. − the report proposes to adopt a new commission proposal that the eu could be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020 instead of the 20% originally proposed. however, it does not seem advisable to forcefully accelerate the current action plan. the latter has proved effective and well calibrated, so that the eu is already making a substantial contribution to reducing gas emissions. the international actors who should be asked to be more committed and sincere in the fight against emissions are others, in particular the emerging countries of asia. the eu's increased commitment, as called for in this report, would only be effective if it was accompanied by a similar effort by the other industrial powers of the world. the eu and its citizens cannot bear the burdens of the other parties to the conflict. in the light of the foregoing considerations, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the eickhout report after the vote on the amendments because i thought it was a good compromise text in the face of certain positions which are extremely ideologically biased and lacking any sense of realism. there are no adequate grounds for a drastic increase in the eu's 2020 emission reduction target, which should be based on careful verification and a detailed analysis of the cost implications. this is all the more so at a historic stage of the crisis when too many european companies are closing down and too many others are struggling under the strain of credit constraints and competition from emerging countries. to impose further environmental constraints on them would be to place them in further difficulty. the rejection of the final text will inevitably open up a new season of difficult negotiations which we can only overcome successfully if we can combine achievable environmental objectives with support for business productivity.
in writing. - parliament today rejected the increase in the emission reduction target to 30% by 2020. the report referred at various points to the alleged health, environmental and economic benefits of moving to a unilateral 30% reduction target, without sufficiently assessing the consequences of such a move for eu-wide development in the absence of an international agreement. we must bear in mind that while the environmental effects of a 30% changeover would be insignificant overall, given that the european union produces only 10% of emissions from human activities, the effects of such a changeover on the competitiveness of the industrial system would be significant, with heavy economic impacts and significant employment spillovers. i would remind you that the conclusions of the environment council of 21 june also stressed the importance of achieving the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, while blocking any change in the commitments made to reduce greenhouse gases. without comparable commitments from industrialised countries such as china and the united states, it would be premature to change the targets already set without first carrying out a thorough cost-benefit analysis also at member state level.
in writing. − the threat of climate change to humanity shows no sign of abating; the frequency and intensity of extreme environmental events have increased. the failure of the international community to conclude a comprehensive and binding international climate treaty in copenhagen does not mean that countries are not taking action. the cancun meeting shows that countries are taking action and that negotiations have gained new impetus. we believe that moving towards a domestic greenhouse gas reduction target that is compatible with the eu's climate goals can go hand in hand with a healthier economy, more green jobs and innovation, and would also bring greater benefits for european citizens through improved air quality. we believe that there should be constant verification of the achievement of the ceilings set up so far: the european emissions trading system will be able to stimulate investment in green technologies and innovation. we believe, however, that the commission's proposal for a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020 is too ambitious, too difficult to achieve and, above all, too costly for european smes.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, mr eickhout's report on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has sparked debate in parliament because of the strategic importance of this request. changing the greenhouse gas reduction rate from 20% to 30% changes the europe 2020 forecast. this is certainly important for the fight against pollution and for the protection of the health of citizens, but to reduce emissions further in such a short time is also to put european companies at risk on the international market. not only would industries have practical difficulties in adapting to the new emission levels, but they would lose competitiveness outside europe where the parameters to be met are far less rigid.
in writing. − outside of a legally binding global international agreement, involving comparable commitments by other industrialised states and adequate efforts by emerging countries, there is no adequate justification for a unilateral increase in the eu's 2020 emission reduction target. it is premature to accept the commission's assessment of a possible 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990 levels if the eu's target of increasing energy efficiency (20% increase by 2020) is reached. before doing so, a thorough check is necessary, as well as a thorough examination of the implications in terms of costs. in the context of international climate negotiations, recognition of this result at this stage does not seem appropriate because it undermines the unilateral commitment already made by the eu (-20% by 2020) in the eyes of the other parties. it is also premature to recognise the 'milestones' identified in the roadmap before the completion of the necessary in-depth assessments of their implications at member state level. i have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i am very pleased that this report on the european commission's communication 'analysis of the intervention hypotheses for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of more than 20% and assessment of the risk of carbon leakage' has been rejected. we could only say the opposite, because at a time when companies are enduring a global crisis and, in europe in particular, unfair competition from third countries, it is not possible to ask for an additional effort than what has already been agreed. outside of a binding global international agreement involving comparable commitments by other industrialised states and adequate efforts by emerging countries, there is no adequate justification for a unilateral increase in the eu's 2020 emission reduction target. the commission's communication also points out that many of the co2 reductions at present are linked to the economic crisis which has led to the closure or relocation of plants to third countries. i understand but i do not share the view of the rapporteur who would like to live in a bucolic world of forests, green pastures and small animals and no industry. the reality is very different and i'm sorry to say it. people need to work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the analysis of the assumptions for intervention for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of more than 20% and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage, as i consider it essential that a global agreement on this matter be encouraged. the eu is one of the leading international actors in the field of the environment, and unilateral action to reduce co2 emissions would only risk weakening the competitiveness of european industries in the international market. moreover, it is not certain that unilateral action can lead to a level playing field with the other major players on the global stage. in any case, a desire to achieve a higher emission reduction target than the eu2020 target is present in the assembly, even if there was no concrete follow-up to the vote.
in writing. − despite agreeing with many of the points included in this report on cohesion and the strategy for cohesion policy after 2013, i was forced to abstain. the support which the document expresses for small and mediumsized enterprises and local economies, whose interests have always been defended by the political line of the northern league, is certainly to be shared. however, the rapporteur's intention to promote the establishment of programmes for roma minorities is not entirely to be shared. the lega nord does not consider the roma to be a 'disadvantaged minority', but rather a minority that rejects any form of integration and positive interaction with our society. i do not intend to support the promotion of programmes in favour of this group, so i could not vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion remains one of the eu's fundamental pillars for reducing the development gaps between geographical areas and sectors of society and the economy. it is a good way of promoting integrated and systemic growth, stimulating initiative and civic sense and enhancing the development of responsibility and the common good. the experience of the current 2007-2013 programming period shows that in the next programming period, the key is to give greater responsibility to actors, beneficiaries and recipients for strategic and operational programming, implementation, monitoring and control of the achievement of the objectives, through incentive and disincentive systems for achieving the targets, which make it possible to make the processes and active participation in them more transparent. the whole governance and management architecture must also be made more flexible and simplified, enhancing the integration capacity of the different territorial realities in the cross-border, inter- and intraregional spheres. finally, it requires that the resources and objectives of cohesion policy for the next programming period are adapted to the challenges facing the eu, including the 2020 strategy. i believe that the report i helped to adopt points the right way.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr pieper, because i believe that cohesion policy - as also stated in the treaty of lisbon - is one of the foundations for the future development of europe, particularly by addressing the regions whose development is lagging behind. it seems to me important - as pointed out in paragraph 84 - that there should be more controls and stricter rules in the use of the structural funds in order to avoid irregularities and fraud. i would have preferred to have accepted the attempt to table an oral amendment to delete the reference to the three working languages (english, french and german) in addition to the national language in which the documentation must be submitted: i think that the national language and english would be sufficient to avoid additional costs and complications for those concerned.
in writing. − we believe that the eu must do more to rapidly expand renewable energy, to increase its storage capacity and to ensure the supply of sources and the security of raw materials. structural and cohesion policy must play a key role in issues related to future competitiveness and bring more smes closer to growing international markets. however, a policy geared to growth and innovation can only work in the presence of a barrier-free, highly harmonised internal market. such a policy can only be sustainable if a link is established between regional policy objectives and european-level objectives in the field of innovation and research. a strong cohesion policy is only justified if the original promoters of the projects are european programmes which add value; in this respect, a more precise and aggressive 'european added value' needs to be defined. we believe that compensatory measures are needed at regional and social level: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - colleagues, the european union's cohesion policy needs well-defined strategies for the future and, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, projects must be formulated to take account of the socioeconomic integration of the member states. the report for which i voted in favour underlines the importance for the union of adopting an effective cohesion policy which will enable europe to play a leading role on the international scene in the near future. the role of the regions and small local authorities in each state will therefore be fundamental, since, although they are already well integrated into international trade, they will have to face the risks of a loss of economic weight and thus of general welfare. the emergence of states such as china, india, brazil, etc., and the predictions of the demographic future of europe, with a shrinking and ageing population, will take away space and influence from the old continent.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments which were intended to introduce a limitation of the eligibility periods for those regions which have not proved capable of achieving significant improvements in their economic, social and ecological situation, not because i believe in european-based assistance, but rather because the role of cohesion policy is that of a development policy aimed at improving the living conditions of the population and developing a balanced and sustainable growth of the communities. it would therefore be absurd to think that delays, sometimes due to causes not attributable to the population, would deprive us of the financial instruments which are essential to the development of our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european union must improve its cohesion policy strategies after 2013, so as not to lose ground to those countries which, in the long term, will have a much better demographic and economic performance. if the european union is to win the game of economic and political competition and ensure that this relative loss of importance is not accompanied by a reduction in prosperity, it must be firm in tackling the important questions of future security. cohesion policy must be able to exploit the strong roots of european networks in international ones, bringing more small and medium-sized enterprises closer to growing international markets.
in writing. − on the motion for a resolution on the commission's fifth report on cohesion and the strategy for cohesion policy after 2013, i voted in favour as i believe that structural and cohesion policy has a key role to play in issues related to future competitiveness. the regions and cities of europe, and their businesses, are already deeply embedded in the global economy, which is a fact that depends on the european history of the individual nation states. the economic fabric of europe is therefore considerably more complex than the structures of asia or north america. more than half of the global links between multinational enterprises and their subsidiaries have their roots in the union. cohesion policy must make more use of this still-present advantage of the international network by bringing more small and medium-sized enterprises closer to growing international markets.
in writing. - mr president, the european union has in recent years been able to establish itself as the leading donor of development aid. conscious that economic support is one of the most important forms of aid, it has supported many developing countries in recent years in achieving certain objectives which are essential for their future growth. strengthening national institutions and systems, empowering these countries to manage funds, contributing to poverty reduction and the promotion of democracy and human rights, and, not least, contributing to the creation of mechanisms to fight corruption are some of the goals that some countries have succeeded in achieving, but much remains to be done. i firmly believe that this is the right way to bring about real qualitative change in these countries, also establishing an effective political and strategic dialogue to the benefit of all in the long term, always keeping in mind that financial support is a transitional instrument to help these countries to become aware of their capabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it calls on the commission to turn budget support to developing countries into its principal form of aid. the strong focus on improving poverty reduction and hunger worldwide is also at the basis of my support. the text insists on the leading role that national parliaments of recipient countries, civil society organisations and local authorities should play as they are best placed to identify priority sectors, prepare national strategies and monitor budget allocations. budget support must not be used to reinforce the eu’s particular economic and strategic interests, but to reach development objectives of and for developing countries.
in writing. - mr goerens' report deals with the subject of aid to developing countries through financial support, which consists of the transfer of financial resources to the budget of the recipient country which are then administered directly by it. i voted in favour because the own-initiative report stresses that, in order to have access to this type of support, the recipient country must have a sufficient level of capacity in the fight against poverty, macroeconomic management, public financial management, good governance and the fight against corruption. it also stresses that aid must be conditional, transparent and meritocratic. it is a report that calls on developing countries to take responsibility and start 'helping themselves' before seeking outside support.
in writing. − financial support means the transfer of financial resources from an external funding agency to the public treasury of a partner country, provided that the latter respects the agreed payment conditions. the eu grants financial assistance only to countries that meet certain eligibility criteria, such as: a clearly defined national development policy and strategy, a stability-focused macroeconomic environment, a credible programme to improve public financial management, which is to enter into force or is being implemented. aid should be given only to countries that meet minimum standards of governance and respect for human rights. the partner country must also demonstrate sufficient transparency, reliability and efficiency in the management of public expenditure. it is important to establish a systematic involvement of parliaments and civil society in the dialogue on anti-poverty policies and on annual reviews of financial support. we believe that this system should also allow information to circulate between civil society and the general public, so that citizens, universities and private organisations can provide their views in the context of the consultations of the thematic groups, set up specifically to monitor financial support for the
in writing. - the european union allocates funds to developing countries in accordance with a set of strict criteria, such as well-defined economic development policies and strategies, sound projects guaranteeing macroeconomic stability and a credible programme to improve the management of public finances. many of these countries are trading partners of europe and so providing financial support for their development also means encouraging investment by our companies, expanding trade and creating jobs. in addition, this is an attempt to give greater stability to the governments of these countries and, consequently, better prospects for stability and better living conditions for the entire socio-political structure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that financial support for developing countries is an important instrument of the european union to stimulate poor countries to fight poverty and consolidate democracy. in this respect, the commission should demonstrate in a more explicit, formal and structured way the conditions of eligibility and the results achieved in the area of public financial management. finally, as the european parliament has already pointed out, i would stress the importance of establishing a system which systematically involves parliaments and civil society in the dialogue on poverty reduction policies and the annual reviews of financial support.
in writing. - on the motion for a resolution on the future of eu financial support to developing countries, i voted in favour as i believe that the european commission's dynamic interpretation of the eligibility conditions, in particular the one concerning the management of public finances, for developing countries, could increase the risk in the short term. the eu only grants financial aid to countries that meet the following three eligibility criteria: (c) a credible and appropriate programme to improve the management of public finances, which is to enter into force or is being implemented, and therefore a clear interpretation is necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr goerens because i strongly believe in the future of financial support for developing countries, provided that the criteria for granting financial support are analysed and implemented objectively with a view to improving its effectiveness. of course, we must avoid the many mistakes and waste of money that have occurred in recent years - i would stress this, at the expense of the european taxpayers - and which have for the most part gone unpunished. if we are to really help the people most in need, the eu's foreign and security policy must focus on promoting democracy and human rights and peace, which are fundamental requirements for sustainable development: all the necessary measures must therefore be taken to combat corruption in the countries receiving aid, including appropriate sanctions such as, for example, a proportional reduction in the allocation of future quotas.
in writing. - the report by mr wagner makes it clear that an integrated european energy network is essential to ensure both security of supply and diversification of sources. i believe that in order to achieve these objectives, which are also recognised by the recent treaty of lisbon, it is right to give priority to energy infrastructure, which is also considered by the commission to be obsolete and poorly connected. we must tackle this infrastructure deficit, and the measures in mr wagner's report are aimed precisely at that. the difficult and crisis situation in bilateral relations between the energy-consuming and the energy-producing countries is further proof that it is necessary to think about tomorrow, about a genuine community energy policy. the wagner report is a first step in that direction and that is why i have given my support to the honourable member.
in writing. − this year, as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the european coal and steel community, i share the opportunity to launch a reflection on the european integrated energy network. this objective is even more ambitious than in the past because it concerns the energy sector as a whole. in my view, the climate and energy package is the effective synthesis of europe's energy priorities, on the basis of which to orient the european union's strategic measures. the green paper 'a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy' is recognised as the most ambitious document on european energy policy to date, but it is only with the lisbon treaty that the primary objective of promoting the interconnection of energy networks is enshrined. such infrastructure is essential to achieve ambitious objectives such as ensuring security of energy supply, security of energy production, price stability for consumers and the creation of a single energy market ensuring access to affordable energy sources for european businesses. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the need for strict commitments in the field of energy policy, since, because of the many national interests involved, there are tensions between the member states and an excessive fragmentation of the energy market.
in writing. − the sudden power cuts that have hit italy and many other member states in recent years demonstrate the need for the eu to clarify the coordinates of its energy policy and develop a coherent strategy, both within the union and with supplier and transit countries, to prevent further power cuts. that is why i voted in favour of this report. however, i would like to make it clear that the promotion of an efficient energy strategy must not lead to indiscriminate support for authoritarian regimes in central asia, nor must it weaken the eu's position vis-à-vis turkey, which, thanks to its role as a transit country, is acquiring increasingly strong conditional power vis-à-vis the eu itself. i therefore vote in favour, but only if the points i have just mentioned are respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a positive own-initiative text from parliament in response to the commission's communication 'energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond'. i welcome the strategic approach of the document, which calls for systemic change, putting a proper, integrated and reliable energy network at the heart of the european political strategy, coordinating and optimising networks at continental level. i agree with the rapporteur that a new method should be used, leading to the identification of the infrastructure map which will enable the creation of a new european super-network interconnecting networks at continental level, focusing on a limited number of priorities to be implemented by 2020. finally, i believe it is crucial to set up innovative infrastructure financing instruments, optimising the leverage of the european union on public and private funds (public-private partnerships) and strengthening collaboration with international financial institutions, combining innovative and existing financial instruments, so that they become flexible and are built according to the different risks and financial needs that each project faces at different stages of development. in addition to the traditional support instruments (grants), equity participations, project bonds, rsffs, loans and guarantees for ppps may be offered.
in writing. − the modernisation of europe's energy infrastructure and the consequent development of an integrated network is one of europe's priorities. the european union currently imports more than 50% of its energy from non-eu countries, which have seen an average price increase of 15% in the past year. this situation highlights the importance of diversifying energy supply routes and building an interconnected and flexible network, which overcomes the various national bottlenecks and allows efficient supply capacity in the different areas of europe. in this respect i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of selecting infrastructure projects on the basis of the clear objective of the european overriding interest and balanced development between the regions. finally, the financing procedures need to be simplified in order to attract more private investment, which has declined slightly in recent years and which is essential for open and transparent energy development.
in writing. - it is now necessary to reflect on the need to create an integrated energy network at european level, i.e. common to all its member states. it is essential to act on demand and on the renewed objectives of european energy policy, such as: sustainability and promotion of renewable energy, competitiveness and opening of markets, security of supply and diversification of sources. the latter must become a decisive element in a policy to safeguard the necessary supplies. the famous '20-20-20' is the effective summary of european priorities; the european council has also adopted a compass to guide europe's strategic measures. we believe that the necessary infrastructure must be identified, criteria must be established for selecting worthy projects and financing must be ensured to attract and stimulate private investment. if we are to make any real progress, we must also make very firm political commitments and invest heavily. finally, we believe that once a project has been declared to be of european interest, a single contact authority should be designated in the member state ('one-stop shop') which should act as an interface, ensuring understanding and communication between the promoters, authorities and citizens concerned and also coordinating between the 'one-stop shops' and the commission's dg energy.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr wagner's report because it is important that the european institutions, and in particular the european parliament, should define the objectives to be achieved in greater detail in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. the priorities in particular are, as also highlighted among the main objectives of the lisbon treaty, energy-related. in the energy field, europe is making a major step forward in reducing greenhouse gases, achieving full energy efficiency and switching to renewable energy. as a result, investment in energy policy has increased dramatically, so much so that energy is now a key issue for the future of all of us, which must be managed within the community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the objective of achieving a genuine internal energy market requires the resolute participation of the european institutions, together with all possible efforts by the companies in the sector. energy infrastructure is often outdated and poorly connected, whereas it would be indispensable to achieve long-held objectives such as reducing carbon levels, ensuring security of supply and creating a single energy market that ensures affordable access to energy sources for businesses and citizens. this requires projects of european interest which involve citizens from the outset and which provide for the establishment of a 'one-stop shop' which acts as an interface between promoters, authorities and citizens concerned.
in writing. − i am in favour of the report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, as it is essential to create an integrated and competitive internal market. in addition, the ten-year network development plan should identify electricity and gas infrastructure projects, selecting those of european interest which should contribute to the completion of the internal market, promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy and improving security of supply. smart grids should be one of the energy infrastructure priorities for achieving the eu's energy and climate objectives. investing in research and innovation remains one of the eu's objectives in the context of economic, social and employment growth.
in writing. − the report on the priorities for energy infrastructure for 2020 welcomes the priority corridors identified by the commission agreeing on the need to optimise limited resources. i voted in favour of the report because it reiterates that while the responsibility for the design and development of infrastructure projects lies primarily within the market, the eu has a role in promoting some projects, granting them the status of 'project of european interest' and providing public funding to some of them, but it requires a clear and transparent methodology to determine the selection of priority projects that can meet pressing european needs. the report concludes that the following criteria should be taken into account in order to justify projects receiving priority: the project must have a european dimension, i.e. a clear eu public interest, its necessity must be demonstrated on the basis of the infrastructure hierarchy, it must also be in line with energy efficiency, climate and environmental objectives, it must be consistent with the eu's long-term energy policy (allowing for flexible and multifunctional application and avoiding bottleneck effects), it must offer good value for money and cost efficiency, and it must be technically sound.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i value its proposal on the establishment of a high-level multi-stakeholder working group, co-chaired by the ep and the commissioner on social affairs. i strongly support its final aims to identify and find solutions to the problems faced by users and providers of social services of general interest. we need to prevent the current financial and economic crisis from putting the development of social services of general interest at risk. in the long term this would harm the growth of employment, the increase in fiscal contributions and the aggregate consumption. it seems also urgent, as stressed by the report, to conduct an assessment of the social consequences and impact on people’s lives of liberalisation measures in sectors that are essential to social progress (transport, energy, water, postal services, telecommunications, etc.). the commission should prevent any further liberalisation measures from being taken until this assessment has been submitted.
in writing. − i agree with many passages in the report on the future of social services of general interest, which has many points in common. the commitment to the social integration of women, and of women in need or victims of violence, is essential. it is essential to maintain the national competences of the member states in the field of social services, giving them priority over the imposition of a uniform and uniform european model. however, i decided to abstain because of certain clauses in the report which stress the urgency of promoting policies for the benefit of immigrants and the need to create employment for them. the lega nord believes that the first beneficiaries of such policies should be the citizens of the union, especially at a time of crisis such as the one we are going through.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market, competition policy and fundamental freedoms have accompanied the growth of an open and integrated european union. the economic vision which originally fostered its constitution is not the only dimension of a political reality which intends to participate in the governance of globalisation. it is in fact a community of other dimensions from which common visions and policies are born, which must put the individual at the centre of their horizon. this change in approach makes it all the more important to foster the creation of an economic and social environment in which the needs of the development of one's identity and the response to the basic needs of daily living and the outlook on life are the driving force of public action. in this perspective, social services of general interest take on a greater and different importance. the economic aspect, which is important in terms of budgetary compatibility and medium- and long-term sustainability, plays an important role, but it is still subordinated to the main objective of the development of the human person and the quality of life, including in its family, social, work and institutional dimensions. i think the report we have adopted supports this view.
in writing. − high-quality universal services such as health, education and childcare and essential network services such as transport, energy and telecommunications can ensure a healthy, active, cohesive and inclusive society. this is why social services of general interest (ssigs), as economic and social pillars essential to our societies, should be adequately funded by the eu. together they make a very significant contribution in terms of jobs, economic activity and purchasing power. in view of the current economic crisis and unemployment, we believe that citizens need access to high quality social services of general interest more than ever, and our economies and society need the benefits that such services could offer. we therefore believe that a substantially strengthened eu budget, a greater role for the eib, the establishment of a high-level multi-stakeholder task force and the recommendations of the third biennial igss forum are all necessary. the reforms should address, inter alia, the role of enterprises, social economy actors and voluntary organisations in the provision of ssigs, as well as the mandatory compliance with national and local social and quality criteria in procurement.
in writing. − services of general interest cover a wide range of activities, ranging from large network enterprises such as energy, telecommunications, transport, audiovisual and postal services, to education, water supply, waste management, social and health services. these are services which are essential to the daily lives of citizens and businesses and which reflect the european model of society. the adoption of this resolution today serves to underline the important role these services play in the pursuit of social, economic and territorial cohesion throughout the union. they are key to the eu's sustainable development in terms of higher levels of employment, social inclusion, economic growth and environmental quality. eu action, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, is aimed at promoting social cohesion, while ensuring democratic choices regarding the level of service quality offered.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the role played by local and regional authorities and their networks in increasing the impact of the european development policy. the rapporteur reiterates that the quest for a strong impact policy should not only be focused on a purely quantitative and short-term assessment of the results. the text calls on the commission to formulate a comprehensive assessment policy based on clear-cut criteria and indicators. in addition to this it urges the eu institutions and member states to monitor and report on governance practices in developing countries (including fighting corruption, improving public financial management, enhancing transparency and upholding human rights). it is extremely important to focus on poverty eradication as the crucial criterion for the allocation of eu development aid.
in writing. - i have spoken negatively about this report on the impact of eu development policy. the report, which focuses on the promotion of human rights, contains some points that are certainly shared, especially those on support for women, the elderly and other vulnerable sections of society. however, the report does call for the promotion of pro-immigration policies in several places, which are not clearly defined and are not convincingly justified by the rapporteur himself. because of these immigration clauses, i could not therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kaczmarek report. the maintenance of a modern eu development policy must be supported, especially at a time of crisis, as investments in poverty reduction and suppression can generate strong benefits for the union in terms of investment and new jobs. it is therefore necessary to implement and increase the impact of development policies aimed at the ambitious objective of poverty reduction, a focal point of eu external action. in this respect, efforts should focus on the concept of 'democratic ownership', a key approach involving direct investment in good governance, greater democracy and human rights, and the fight against corruption. the private sector, and in particular smes, should be more actively involved in the development support process, as they are key players in sustainable development and in achieving the objectives set. finally, the focus should be on industrial development that provides greater potential for transforming national economies and, in comparison with agricultural exports and the extraction of natural resources, offers the possibility of ensuring even more productivity growth in the long term.
in writing. − the european union has made significant progress in developing and implementing development policies over the past decades. projects, actions and development funds have been mobilised to create a reality that involves many aspects of the lives of all european citizens. supporting this report today, at a time like the present, when the debate on the next mff is taking place, means emphatically reiterating the need for a common strategy which guarantees, in financial terms, territorial, environmental and human development. i share the need for high impact aid, the inevitable goal of inclusive development, as also recalled by the eu2020 strategy, and the involvement of the private sector in the development process. i believe that the latter is a vital factor in the sustainable development of the many smes in europe.
in writing. − the main objective of eu aid must be the reduction and eradication of poverty. an approach to governance that emphasises human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the role of parliaments and civil society in holding governments to account and assessing development performance is important for this policy. growth is an important driver of development. it should be environmentally sustainable, respect biodiversity and prevent the worrying degradation of fertile land. the eu should therefore promote agro-ecological and low-input practices. we also support the importance of the development of social security systems and fair tax systems, as well as the promotion of the ilo's decent work agenda. finally, we believe it is particularly important that access to basic social services, in particular health and education, should remain a cornerstone of community aid. a modern european development policy therefore needs the understanding and participation of european citizens: further efforts will therefore be needed in development education and awareness-raising, based on the values of human rights, democracy, tolerance, social responsibility and gender equality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is the right way to achieve the main objective of the european union's development policy: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. to enhance the impact of european development policy, better coordination and harmonisation based on the principle of ownership, as well as a governance approach based on the key concept of 'democratic ownership' are needed. access to basic social services, especially health and education, is crucial to facilitating sustainable growth, and these should account for at least 20% of total eu assistance.
in writing. − i am opposed to the report on strengthening the impact of eu development policy, as it presents some problematic aspects: the request to introduce a financial transaction tax; the european union is also calling for an increase in the funds allocated to development aid and finally for the establishment of a new body within the eeas to deal with the coherence of the union's external policies. since the creation of new bodies and the imposition of new taxes would require additional efforts on the part of the eu countries and their citizens, i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text presented by mr kaczmarek on the impact of the european union's development policy. the report is geared to an analysis which, on issues of particular importance (such as high impact aid, the concept of inclusive development and the involvement of the private sector in eu development policies), pays due attention to and assesses the possibility of a change of direction from what has been established in the past.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner lewandowski, i should like to begin by thanking president barroso and the whole commission for the proposal on the new multiannual financial framework. the document allows us to meet the demands made by the european parliament in the report by mr garriga polledo on a number of important issues such as research, innovation, development, small and mediumsized enterprises, renewable energy and own resources. i think that there is still work to be done on other equally important matters, such as the amount of money to be used to finance the common agricultural policy. i think that the commission's proposal on this subject should be improved, as it does not fully comply with what a large majority of this parliament has called for. a general increase in resources is necessary to maintain at least the financial allocation of the paramount common policy, the agricultural policy, unchanged. it is precisely in relation to the cap that the commission's proposal, at 2011 current prices, represents a hard-to-quantify cut, but certainly a cut. i believe that this cannot be considered acceptable by parliament and i therefore believe that it will be necessary to work in the next negotiations to reach an agreement with the other institutions, an agreement which is satisfactory and which allows europe to emerge from the crisis and to achieve the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as required by the europe 2020 strategy.
member of the commission. − madam president, on behalf of the commission, i should like to thank the honourable members for their comments. today’s debate has once more demonstrated that the european parliament is a good place to discuss serious european matters from the european perspective – a truly european perspective – and this is a fundamental debate because the budget is a vision in figures. without figures it could just be about empty declarations. given the context of today’s europe, the strategic choice of the commission and the puzzle to be solved was how to respond to more europe – the lisbon treaty is about more europe – with more or less the same amount of money to defend a real constant volume, to be taken seriously, and to put on the table a proposal which is taken as a solid basis for negotiations with both the council and parliament. i would like to say to mr callanan, ms andreasen, mr hartong, mr brons, mr ashworth – already missing – and also ms dodds, all of them from countries whose national budgets are growing this year, and where projects for the next year are also growing – that the multiannual financial perspective is about the ceilings, limits on expenditure. this is the essence of a multiannual perspective. we are of course placing some reserves, some potential expenditure, outside because this is about reserves and flexibility. it is wise to be ready in case, and this is that section of the budget. it should be acknowledged that apart from the positive priorities in this budget – positives are increasing research to eur 80 billion, external relations increasing to eur 70 billion – this time we had an exercise in negative priorities, including major efforts to restrain administrative costs. it should also be acknowledged that so-called traditional policies are being modernised, as seen in the greening of direct payments, conditionality in cohesion, the shift towards the poor in cohesion, but also a convergence, a delicate convergence of direct payments done in such a way that we could afford increases of more than 50% for those with the lowest direct payments, but the most extreme cost for those who are financing this increase is only 7%. now turning to lásló surján: with our proposal the four poorest countries in europe should have transfers from the european budget of up to 4 % of gdp. this is quite a lot. i would say that this is the limit of what we can afford. turning to mr la via and ms manner, who are worried about greek agriculture: yes, this is communal policy, therefore we have more communal responsibility for the farmers, but you could also detect in this proposal that we now have now proposed to cover, via the globalisation fund, the risk for the farmers. there is a special crisis reserve, various positions on deprived persons, so there are some safeguards indicating that we are conscious of a communal, federal responsibility for farming in europe. on own resources, mr eppink warned us that this is a non-starter but this is already flying. this is the conclusion of the european council. this is in the parliament resolution. this is supported by more than 60 % of the european population and versions of this sort of tax are imposed in great britain. and i believe there are still some financial services in the city despite that sort of stamp tax and taxation on derivatives. salvador garriga polledo said that the proposal was born in a climate of cooperation. let us preserve the climate of cooperation, aiming at an agreement that could be equal to financial peace for europe for seven years. this is a gift. this is a value in itself in our turbulent times.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of food information to consumers, amending regulations (ec) no 1924/2006 and (ec) no 1925/2006 and repealing directives 87/250/eec, 90/496/eec, 1999/10/ec, 2000/13/ec, 2002/67/ec, 2008/5/ec and regulation (ec) no 608/2004 [17602/1/2010 - c7-0060/2011 - 2008/0028 ((cod)) ] (rapporteur: renate sommer) (a7-0177/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we were in favour of the text as it was at first reading. the council has rejected the measure, which is now undergoing a second reading, despite the rapporteur's efforts, on the grounds that it would remove the obligation to indicate the country of origin or place of provenance of foodstuffs on the label. we believe that this choice is against our companies, which want to continue to work, produce and create jobs in europe. some progress has been made in the negotiations between the commission and the council, but it is still too little compared with the expectations of the european citizens. the fact that national provisions on the indication of origin are in fact only theoretical is even more serious. it is very difficult to find a qualified majority in the standing committee for a more restrictive national rule. the lega nord believes that the indication of origin is in the consumer's interest, since he must be informed about what he is buying. our position will be the opposite.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the report on consumer information is a new and important step for europe towards achieving its specific objective of protecting consumer rights. i thank the rapporteur, mrs sommer, and all the shadow rapporteurs, and in particular the shadow rapporteur for my group, mrs glenis willmott. but if it is true that europe can now look to the future with greater confidence, having strengthened the effectiveness of the instruments for food protection and transparency, it is equally true that the agreement at second reading reduces, albeit in part, what was approved by this house at first reading. we would have expected more, mr president, for example, on the origin labelling of agri-food products. the obligation to indicate the origin of all meat, which the new article 25 gives us, is a very important innovation that meets the expectations of large parts of european consumers. at the same time, it cannot fail to stress its less ambitious nature than the introduction of mandatory labelling for all fresh and processed agricultural products containing only one ingredient, which this house had just approved. and the very labelling of meat in annex xi excludes some important productions which require as much protection, such as rabbit meat, for which the reasons for the exclusion are not understood. however, the road to food transparency has been paved and now we must pursue it with the same commitment and responsibility that has brought us here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the key word in this report is 'consumer'. we often forget who we're looking to when we make decisions. in order to give the consumer more accurate information, important decisions were taken in the report under discussion, such as the indication of particular nutritional values or the indication of origin. it's a step forward, but it's not the end. the indication of origin for agri-food products, the origin of the main foodstuffs constituting a product, should be the first information available to the consumer. there are several cases where traceability is crucial, the last in chronological order the bacterium that unfortunately has caused several victims. by identifying the origin of the product, it is possible to take timely action or to protect the product from misinformation. the competitiveness factor is equally important: the indication of origin is often synonymous with guarantee and quality. the various excellences of each country have won the trust of the consumer. we support the indication of origin because the consumer has a right to know what he is eating.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have achieved a good result and i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. article 9 in particular, which concerns small businesses, is a very important article. in recent years we have given special encouragement to direct marketing from farms in many regions of our union. it is important that we now also take care that such activities are not impaired. i wish i had more courage when it came to alcohol. it is quite understandable that labels are provided for alcopops, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. i think that the wine data should not be changed in the future.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of foodstuffs. they simply need to inform the citizen by helping him to make more informed choices. this is the line that finally prevailed, after almost three years of intense work. we will therefore have clearer and more readable labels with, for example, better highlighted allergens. we'll have strict rules about misleading information: for example, you cannot draw strawberries on the packaging if the yoghurt contains only flavourings and colours. i mean, we're gonna have a lot of good things for the consumer. but this regulation will also benefit our companies, especially smes, because it reduces trade distortions and red tape. of course, like many compromise agreements, the one reached does not satisfy all the requirements. it would have been important, for example, to make labelling compulsory for rabbit meat in relation to the place of origin. the rabbit sector, which has recently been hit by a serious crisis, would need urgent measures aimed at boosting the image of rabbit meat, including through far-sighted labelling and traceability policies. i hope the commission can remedy this, which seems more like a choice than a forgetting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, fifteen years after the bse emergency, it is time to take stock of the implementation and prospects of the european legislative framework and the related controls on feed and food. as the rapporteur said, the data indicate that the number of positive cases in the european union has fallen from over 2 100 cases in 2001 to just over 65 cases in 2009 and that in the light of this epidemiological downward trend, the legislation applied can be considered to have contributed to the eradication of bse. the report we are about to vote on therefore represents an important opportunity to begin the process of adapting the legislative provisions to the real risk situation with commitment and responsibility. a good sign of this is the review of the ban on animal meal in animal feed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health standards are respected. this is an important new element and, while fully respecting maximum food safety, it is of particular strategic importance, especially in the light of the current protein deficit in the european union. at the same time, of course, we should not lower our guard on control and surveillance. this is something that must be avoided if europe's extraordinary progress in consumer protection and animal health is not to be undermined.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, gender equality is a fundamental right and it is one of the fundamental principles of the eu. gender equality is also a condition for economic growth, social inclusion and well-being in our societies. the under-exploited pool of well educated women represents real untapped potential for the eu economy, especially at a time when human capital is a key factor in terms of our competitiveness and when, as a society, we are ageing. eu member states might be very different, as the rapporteur has said, but they face a common challenge: the under-representation of women in high-level decision making, in particular in the corporate sector, is a reality almost everywhere. i know that there are fierce debates about voluntary agreements versus binding quotas. i know too that there are five eu member states which have followed the norwegian example and have introduced binding measures to increase the number of women in business leadership. no later than last week, two member states, belgium and italy, adopted legislation to impose gender quotas in business leadership. irrespective of the solution found in individual member states – and we know that there are other member states that have binding quotas for state-owned companies, or general voluntary agreements – one thing that is clear is the business case for gender equality. this evening and tomorrow at voting time, parliament will, i hope, take a strong position on this important issue. i thank vice-president rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulo for her efforts to bring the european parliament into this debate and for her bold report, and i would also like to thank the members of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, who backed her almost unanimously. why, in the european union, do women constitute 60% of university graduates but only 12% on the boards of the largest publicly listed companies, and only 3% among the presidents of those boards? the question is: can europe afford this? the answer is no, and it is not simply my answer. it is the answer from studies commissioned by businesses such as mckinsey and deutsche bank, indicating that there is a positive correlation between the presence of women in senior positions and company performance. so gender-diverse boards improve corporate governance and, from a micro-economic perspective, companies that have introduced gender diversity on their boards can also mirror the diversity of their employees and customers. by the way, 80% of purchasing decisions are made by women so it is an advantage to have women on the board, and there is a business case for increasing their involvement in management and corporate decision making. the commission is determined to advance gender equality further. you know about our strategy and you also know i have made it very clear that ‘women on the board’ should be one of the aims we pursue. that is why, in march this year, i brought together the ceos and board chairs of big publicly listed companies to discuss possible ways forward. i wanted to give self-regulation a last chance, and i have encouraged companies to develop credible self-regulatory initiatives to make significant progress. i have called on the eu’s publicly listed companies to sign the ‘women on the board’ pledge for europe and voluntarily to increase women’s presence on corporate boards to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020. after one year – i.e. in march next year – i will see which and how many companies have signed up to the pledge. i will assess the situation to see if there has been significant progress and if we have credible commitments. i hope the answer will be yes. should it be no – should there be insufficient progress with self-regulation – then the commission will explore policy options for targeted measures to enhance female participation in decision making. for me what counts is the end result, and the direction that parliament takes tomorrow with this vote will undoubtedly be a very strong source of inspiration: not only for the commission but also, i hope, for the corporate world.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in this report i am thanking mr kratsa-tsagaropoulou for the great effort he has made in accepting many of the proposals and objectives which i, as shadow rapporteur and s&d group, have put forward together with other colleagues. in the european union, women are underrepresented, already in senior management roles, with just 12% of the cdas of listed companies. in this context, we ask the european commission - and we are pleased to have heard commissioner reding's serious commitment - to propose by 2012 legislative acts providing for binding quotas, reaching the percentages of 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020, in case of insufficient measures taken in the member states or by companies. in this respect, it is already a very encouraging sign that six countries, including italy, have recently passed legislation to this effect by a bipartisan vote. i would like to make it clear that this is not just about quantitative quotas, but also about improving the performance of the business system by sharing management, not only in large companies but also in small and mediumsized ones. we therefore propose that more instruments be used in the field of corporate social responsibility, from family-friendly services to flexible working time arrangements and training for women in management. it is also important to understand the link between the presence of skills and the role of women at the governance levels of a company with a different approach in the management of processes, the enhancement of human resources, anti-discrimination rules and sustainable productivity that they often ensure. i would also like to raise another point in reply to what mr bauer rightly said earlier, namely that we have not just provided for quotas for women, but we have provided for an important mechanism which was one of our proposals, namely that the participation of women and men be linked to a mechanism of greater transparency in appointments, in the selection of men and women, so that it is a benefit for all and not just a reserve for women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou's report is essential to reducing the gender gap in company management. in many member states of the european union, national parliaments are discussing or have already introduced draft laws to introduce reserved quotas for competent and qualified women on the boards of publicly traded companies. as commissioner reding anticipated, last week, on 28 june 2011, the italian chamber of deputies finally launched a bill to introduce pink quotas with a bipartisan vote. in italy, in listed companies and publicly owned companies, the boards of directors and supervisory bodies will have to be made up of one fifth women from 2012 and one third from 2015. i support a strong signal from europe on the integration of women at the top of companies, in order to prevent a loss of talent of human potential skills and to contribute to the performance of companies. we must act quickly and with quota systems, because the data available to us in the european union are worrying: on average, only 12 percent of board members of the largest publicly traded companies are women, and only 3 percent are ceos. in this sense, more space should be given to competent and qualified women and they should be helped through the quota system not to be marginalised from the decision-making process of companies. it is important to get to the root of the problem and i therefore support action to direct more young women to science and technology colleges.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in line with what the european commission announced a few days ago, the polish presidency has said that it is willing to bet on economic growth as a means of getting us out of the crisis. this is only possible, however, by making the most of the opportunities offered by the single market. we must quickly overcome the uncertainties of economic integration. the deeper this integration, the more likely we are to emerge from the crisis. integration is not an ideological condition, as some people say of the european project, but it is the indispensable factor of a coexistence aiming at peace and development. i believe, however, that the polish presidency is making its most important contribution to the european project. it is the contribution of the values of the dignity of the person and the dignity of work written on the gates of gdansk by the militants of solidarność; is the contribution of the values of religious freedom and democracy and love for the people and their faith, witnessed every year for fifty years by the millions of poles who, under the dictatorship, went to the shrine of the black madonna of częstochowa, making it possible for europe and the whole world to understand the words of the philosopher tischner: "god is born, power trembles"; is the contribution of karol wojtyła; the contribution of http://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/lech_wa%c5%82%c4%99sa" \or "lech wa3êsa", of popiełuszko, of bronisław geremek in this hall, of the martyrs of katin and the contribution of your history, which today in many ways is our hope and which makes us all, all of europe say in the words of the people: "mary, queen of poland, save poland from the devil!"
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tusk, your speech gives us hope, the hope is that the polish presidency will be a contribution to the battle against the europe of national egoism, without a view to the future, that it will be a contribution to a europe which really thinks of itself as a reality, integrated and with a common destiny. but as you rightly said in your speech, a presidency has concrete problems to face and solve. i would like to point out two crucial issues in this short time in the face of the financial and economic crisis. question number one: the reform of financial markets. it is not a technical problem, it is a major democratic issue of our time, the time is too long, we must close issues such as the reform of short selling and otcs. second point: we are faced with the issue of taxation of financial transactions, we must get to the heart of it, and we expect the polish presidency to make a concrete contribution to this.
the next item is the report by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis, on the financial, economic and social crisis: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. we are seriously behind on all schedules, so i recommend you stick to your allotted minutes. i shall now give the floor to the rapporteur, and ask the colleagues before me to make their way to the exit.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! i congratulate mrs pervenche berès on an excellent report, a very important report, a report which is really on the table at the moment. today, tackling the financial crisis, which has become a public finance crisis, is what is most important for europe. and that is why i welcome this report, and that is why i say that this report is so important. today, the most important short-term challenge is to agree on a package of six economic governance acts. i think there are two or three points of contention between the council's position and parliament's position. i'm confident we can reach a compromise quickly. i hope - i'm not sure - but i think it's incredibly important that we get this compromise done quickly. this package is truly groundbreaking. more emphasis, more importance, that we will give to public debt, not just deficits, national rules on public debt or deficit or public spending increases. it's something that we've had in poland for a while now, and it's going to be required in all countries now, based on this package. this is a very significant strengthening of the preventive arm, perhaps the most important strengthening of this preventive arm of our economic governance system and also the eu's spending rule. in this package of six laws, of course, all these things are very important, but we also have to ensure - which this package of course does not provide - economic growth. because, as prime minister tusk said from this very spot a few minutes ago, solidarity is not charity. of course, we have to deliver this economic growth mainly through structural reforms and privatization, but we have to have aid programs that not only consolidate public finances, but also enable economic growth. and solidarity, which is not charity, is a well-defined self-interest of countries that play on the same team. this is what we need to recover the understanding that the stability of the euro area is also crucial for the countries that give to others, not just for those who receive that help, and that the structural reform and consolidation programmes, but also the privatisation, are in the well-understood interest of those countries that undertake these programmes. so, on this basis, on the basis of a correct understanding of solidarity - and i am convinced that this report, which we are going to discuss today, will also help us to bridge the growing gap between the north and the south of europe, between the more stable countries that help others and those that receive help. but we must remember, as the prime minister said a few minutes ago, that solidarity pays off, because those who receive expressions of solidarity from others, the stronger ones at the moment, can then reciprocate that solidarity with affection. i would like to conclude by saying how pleased i am that christine lagarde, the former french finance minister, has become the president of the international monetary fund. i think it will also play a key role in the g20 in terms of the further processing of european proposals in that forum, and i will listen very carefully to the european parliament's comments as the presidency's representative. i would also like to congratulate mrs pervenche berès on the report of this committee.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank ms berès and the shadow rapporteurs for this very comprehensive report. i would also like to thank the chair of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis, wolf klinz, who has so effectively guided the work of this special committee since its establishment in october 2009. the scope of your work has been enormous, but your method of tackling it has been similarly impressive, resulting in a thorough analysis and a broad set of conclusions. although this final report represents the completion of the committee’s mandate, it will be important to ensure that its work receives the appropriate follow-up. from the commission’s side, i can assure you that we will pay very close attention to this. obviously, i cannot comment here in detail on every one of the 108 paragraphs, but let me make some general remarks. first of all, we continue to be primarily preoccupied with the urgent measures to tackle the sovereign debt crisis because we are, of course, not out of the woods yet. we are working to put public finances back on a sound footing and to address the extraordinary challenges presented by the situation in greece. at the same time, we need to put in place an institutional and legislative framework which will prevent a repetition of the events of the last three years. in this context, let me thank all those who have worked intelligently and hard on the economic governance package over the past year. i can only regret that the council and parliament have not yet been able to reach a final agreement on it. the conclusion of the governance reform is badly needed to show that europe has the capacity to act, and thus to restore confidence in our economic prospects. the adoption of the package is fundamental to our response to the crisis: to strengthening and giving teeth to our economic policy coordination, in terms of both prevention and correction; to achieving sound public finances; and to avoiding harmful macroeconomic imbalances. i firmly believe that 99% of this package has been agreed. the council and parliament have both made important improvements to our original proposals. parliament has, for instance, codified the european semester and set up a structured economic dialogue, providing for a prominent role for parliament throughout the european semester. it has created the opportunity for detailed discussion of country-specific situations at every stage of decision-making, and it has obtained a commitment from the commission to carry out a study on eurosecurities within six months of the entry into force of the legislation. the commission will also commit itself, in the declaration accompanying the study, to reviewing the intergovernmental nature of the european stabilisation mechanism by mid-2014. honourable members, you have won an equal role for parliament in determining the scoreboard for detecting possible macroeconomic imbalances. you have inserted firm guarantees on social dialogue, respect for national traditions in relation to collective agreements, wage formation and the role of social partners. yet it seems that this is not sufficient, and therefore it is not possible to conclude the legislative process before the summer break. that is very disappointing. i hope that the council and parliament will pull out all the stops to reach an acceptable compromise on the issues that still divide them, so that this package can enter into force as soon as possible. looking beyond the vote, i welcome the ambition and scope of the vision outlined in the report. i share the view that we must look further ahead and focus on the long-term implications of the crisis for the european project. i assume that a clear majority of all of us here agree that deeper economic integration will have to be part of the answer, despite current trends that appear to go in the opposite direction. regarding your call for the commission to present a report on eurobonds, in the context of the economic governance package, the commission has agreed to table such a report on the feasibility of eurosecurities towards the end of the year. these eurosecurities would aim to strengthen fiscal discipline and increase stability, as well as ensuring, by taking advantage of the increase in liquidity, that member states enjoying the highest credit standards would not suffer from higher interest rates. this issue really has to be seen as part of the overall governance reform that will materialise through the adoption of the package. i appreciate your support for improving the european union’s role as a global player in the context of the g20, the imf and other elements of global governance. i am also glad that you have paid particular attention in your report to the issues of competitiveness and convergence, and sustainable growth and jobs. the paramount importance of growth policies cannot be overstated in relation to tackling the crisis. to conclude, i trust the commission and parliament share the view that a convincing response to this crisis and the effective prevention of future crises will require stronger, broader and earlier coordination at european level. this is at the heart of the economic governance package. in my view, the first concrete reaction to the final report of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis, as prepared by ms berès, must be the speediest possible adoption of the package. it does not yet mean completion of the economic and monetary union but it is certainly a very big step in that direction – and it is essential to restore confidence in the european project of deeper integration and an ever-closer union.
the decision taken by this parliament two years ago to set up a committee on the financial, economic and social crisis has proved to be a courageous and far-sighted one, in the light of the results which were set out in the mid-term report and in the final report which will be adopted today. it was not easy to make that choice and above all to keep the issues of the financial crisis together with the economic and social effects which have proved to be very dangerous in much of the world and, for us, especially in europe. so we've done important work, and it comes to an even more important conclusion. each of the hypotheses set out in the report foreshadows a strengthening of europe's institutional, political and economic structures in order to emerge from the crisis in a lasting way. this was far from a given and i think it should be appreciated, especially at a time of great difficulty such as the one europe is going through. the information contained in the document concerns: the creation of a minister of the treasury; own resources for the budget of the union; eurobonds and the financial transaction tax; the tax coordination assumptions, which are indicated there; the recognition that knowledge is fundamental to the creation of quality employment in the future for young europeans; the european union is a major player in the world economy. there are, however, some new developments which foreshadow a strengthening of the european union, a union which has become a little stagnant and is even suffering the most severe blows of the crisis itself. there are difficulties today which we cannot underestimate or ignore, but which can be overcome by applying correctly and consistently the guidelines contained in the report.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the angelides report by the us congressional inquiry commission has clearly shown that the crisis was avoidable and has pointed out the responsibilities of public managers and the financial system, calling out those responsible by name: the fed, the ratings agencies, the investment banks, the big five american banks are responsible for a crisis that continues today. and that is true today. this was preceded by the alarm, which was also ignored by the crisis committee of the nobel prize for economics, maurice allais, and which was very serious. unfortunately, the report does not say much about all this, and, following the vulgarity of those economists, almost all of them, who did not know how to foresee the crisis, today close their eyes to a key proposal, for those who want to get to the heart of the problem: restoring the principles of the glass-steagall act, aimed at separating the activities of traditional banks from those of investment and business, and therefore speculation, and prohibiting the exchange and creation of financial derivatives the commission has also been unable to take account of one of the key points of the careful approach which is necessary for financial recovery and the effective fight against corruption by taking drastic measures and finally how can we ignore the negative impact of the crisis on a serious problem such as immigration?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for europe to make courageous choices if it is not to simply survive. the crisis has left a deep mark on the real lives of european citizens and businesses and, if we do not act, risks irreversibly lowering the social and cultural quality, the well-being and the future of young people and europeans. beyond the values of cohesion and prosperity, getting out of the crisis means creating remedies for the identified causes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat speculation, including the removal of its nails if necessary, by introducing strict rules on the financial markets. remedies against recession; remedies against the unbalanced development model that has placed the person one step below profit; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. above all, it is time to define new tools and resources to move forward, to start the engines of growth, with research, innovation, training, support for productive investment, infrastructure and work, because without work people are without dignity and without rights. this report, thanks to mr berès and his colleagues, points to a possible strategy for a europe that is proud and aware of its role. the european leadership, if it exists, now has the responsibility to implement it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that the objective we set ourselves has been fully achieved. this report has not fully achieved the commission's aim of: the commission will continue to monitor the situation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the connotations and the evolution of this crisis, which was first financial, then economic and now also dramatically social, have forced us and still force us to exercise surgical caution in our proposals. our task is to support measures which will prevent the recurrence of new economic crises and will be a real stimulus to growth. the text in question provides for certain measures which could fulfil these tasks, but only if they are implemented immediately and with the necessary resources. i am referring to the so-called tobin tax, infrastructure bonds, measures to support small and mediumsized enterprises and the need to extend european transport networks and to complete the single market. the european machine is still too slow in its work, and very often it adopts a policy that is far behind the times. we need more europe, we need a europe which is more responsive to real needs. a europe that is timid, divided and permeated by unjust nationalism makes us too weak in the era of globalisation and continues to favour speculators, who in recent years have found fertile ground for their interests on our continent. i would like to thank the rapporteur and mr karas.
we will convey your request to the conference of presidents.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the very substantive and responsible debate facilitated by the excellent report by ms berès. i fully agree with those such as ms jaakonsaari who say that we need to express unity in our policy-making at this critical juncture. we need unity to overcome the current crisis and we need creativity and courage in pursuing a substantive debate on europe in the day after tomorrow. one of the issues is eurobonds, and that is very much linked to the overall reform of economic governance. (noise)mr president, i suggest we come back to the issue later, because it is is impossible to hear or even talk. i cannot hear my own voice. we will return to the subject later. (applause)
i'll be with you in a moment, commissioner. i would ask the house to listen carefully to the commissioner's reply.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to say a few words about eurobonds and the governance reform in relation to the growth policies referred to in ms berès’ report. i want to underline one important point about eurobonds, namely that this house will get a very meaty and substantial response from the commission about the way forward on eurobonds, at the latest six months after the council and parliament reach agreement on the economic package. we have already promised – and i can assure you again – that, as soon as we have agreement on the package, the brightest and best minds of the commission’s directorate-general for economic and monetary affairs will be put to work on a very substantive report for this house, which you will have on your desks within six months. this sequence is simply a matter of common sense. if we do not have stronger economic governance and greater discipline in the euro area in particular, what real hope is there that eurobonds will take off and will deliver the benefits your report anticipates? without prior serious reform of economic governance, and real discipline and economic coordination, eurobonds would quickly turn to junk bonds. next, on the reform package, i am sorry some of you do not share the commission’s view that the package should be one of our key priorities at this critical juncture. however, i am encouraged by those of you who do share that view. i make no apology for returning to this issue from a different angle. any programme of reform needs to be prioritised and sequenced. if you are addressing a problem, you need, as the first priority, to tackle its root cause. therefore, we have to ask whether we are in the mess we are in because we did not have a different arrangement for external representation of the euro area. the answer is ‘no’. are we in this mess because germany and italy issued their own debt instruments? no. are we in this mess because of inadequate investment in tertiary education? no. these are all important issues, but let us recall that we are in this mess mainly because of fiscal indiscipline, even in good times, and because we failed to identify and act on important macroeconomic imbalances. we are where we are because we did not have sufficient commitment from the member states to meeting their european obligations, and because the economic leg of economic and monetary union has always been too weak. (applause) if we cannot see this, and if we cannot act decisively to remedy it, then all of the rest is just rearranging the deckchairs on the titanic. the legislative package is all about putting the ‘economic’ back in economic and monetary union. assuming that we get through this current crisis, which is not a foregone conclusion, it is all about preventing the next crisis. it is really fundamental. it is about the community method; it is about economic stability, the foundations of sustainable growth and improving employment; and it is about european coordination and solidarity. in short, it is about keeping the european project alive and kicking. (applause)
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is the beginning of the polish presidency, a six-month presidency and from this point of view six months may seem like a rather short period but we all see what the pace of change is, what the pace of events is at the moment, especially in the economic and financial sphere. that is why we have these major challenges, and i would like to stress that they are the same for the main agenda items of the european parliament, the council and the european commission. we have the same priorities. of course, each side should - and will - express its own views on the issues, but i am convinced that by acting together, the european union can cope with the difficult situation we are facing. we are acting as the polish presidency, as an impartial participant determined to help and facilitate mutual understanding and agreement. and in this context, in particular, the issue of the so-called six-pack comes to the fore, which is in particular the element that is supposed to prevent the situation we have now from recurring in the future. i would like to thank you again for the report, for the debate and for all the comments and comments.
ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome to the gallery professor muhammad yunus, nobel peace prize laureate in 2006 and inventor of social microcredit.
we are now returning to the debate on the report by mrs pervenche berès (a7-0228/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the crisis has maintained political borders but not economic ones and has shown us that risk is boundless. this is why we need a comprehensive approach, not a one-off approach, but a comprehensive approach. the only solution that can be pursued with conviction, then, is a system of global governance that establishes common rules for all. we can create competitiveness, open up our markets and make them more efficient, but that will not protect us from future crises. no state, no financial institution can be considered secure even if it is based on solid foundations, given the interconnectedness of our economies. we have more and more open and common markets, but we have different rules from state to state that prevent the kind of control and surveillance that markets and citizens demand. common and global rules will not hold back markets, but will give greater certainty and security to traders and investors. europe must return to attracting investment and production, establishing itself as a global model for innovation and growth. public and private financial institutions must work to ensure that markets work for the benefit of the real economy and smes. union and solidarity are essential if europe is to succeed in meeting the global challenge.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr karim, you have the full support of this house.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the sommer report because i believe that european citizens should be able to make a free and informed choice about their food. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. these are rules of common sense which have the merit of giving citizens the freedom of choice in order to ensure a healthy, balanced and conscious diet. this regulation is the instrument through which citizens will be able to assert their specific needs in the choice of foodstuffs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the compromise reached between parliament and the european council, european consumers will now be able to know where the meat they eat comes from. the amendment i tabled, which is part of the institutional compromise, was certainly more ambitious and called for greater labelling of the origin and provenance of other products, not only meat but also milk, dairy products in general and meat used as an ingredient in food. it is, however, gratifying to know that a step-by-step approach has been identified which will lead the commission to present a specific report on the subject within two years and within three years, which will then lead to proposals which will shortly enable european citizens as a whole to have greater and more complete protection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sommer report is certainly a milestone, but i would say it is only a milestone, not a final milestone, as mr uggias said. there are two- and three-year deadlines, which the commission has committed itself to respecting, deadlines in which it will certainly be possible to finalize the rules adopted, albeit laboriously, with laborious and appreciable negotiations lasting many years, because something may have escaped us. i take this opportunity to say that i think this report is generally positive and therefore i voted in favour, but i think the commission should make an effort to reassess some of the shortcomings, such as the lack of inclusion of rabbit meat, which is recognised as one of the best white meat in terms of nutrition and diet and which could be included in the evaluation that the commission has committed itself to do over the next three years, with a compatibility assessment that i hope i can develop as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote marks the end of an incredible cycle of work which has seen over 3 000 amendments tabled in three years. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the member states. i welcome the new specific indications on the content of allergens, for example, the presence of which will be highlighted in a timely and recognizable way at a glance. finally, as an italian, i can only welcome the final abandonment of the so-called traffic lights. no food can ever again be labelled as harmful if it is not, forcing consumers to exclude it completely from their diet. this will make it possible to integrate it consciously into a varied and balanced diet, which i hope will follow the guidelines of our beloved and enviable mediterranean diet.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very delicate report which has already caused controversy at first reading and which has an immediate impact on european consumers. we must not go through feuerbach's 'you are what you eat' or the foundations of microeconomic theory to be able to say with certainty that consumers have a right to access complete and truthful information about what they are buying. however, the real issue is what information should be reported and how. i think the rapporteur has done a very good job in finding compromises with the council on this. i think that the aim of total traceability of certain foods such as meat, fish, oil and honey is a great achievement, also in line with the common agricultural policy. as an italian, i hope that in the future we can have traceability for pasta, pizza and mozzarella. this is a good thing for us and for all europeans and consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my country, italy, receives a steadily increasing flow of tourists every year and, as the holiday season approaches, what happens every year is about to repeat itself: foreigners' offenses will go largely unpunished, except for those who are stopped at the scent of crime. but not for long, because we welcome this measure which aims at last to standardize the procedure for identifying the data of the owner of the vehicle with which the infringement has been committed. some facts: as many as 15% of speeding offences in the member states are committed by foreigners and the percentage of those who visited italy by car last year is 67%. you can see that this directive represents an important prerogative for my country in the identification and recovery of many claims on the state, which still weigh on the accounts of local authorities. i also welcome the fact that, in addition to the usual speed limit, the offences also include failure to wear a seat belt, driving at red lights, the high alcohol content of the driver, the effects of drugs, to name just a few of the most frequent. i therefore share the approach of the directive which does not seek to affect national regimes concerning the criminal or administrative nature of infringements and for which i have therefore voted in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, over the years the number of motorists who have committed road traffic offences in a member state other than their own has been steadily increasing. a worrying scenario that should not leave us indifferent. i believe that a clearer legal framework on the exchange of information between competent authorities for a more rapid and uniform identification of the owner's data of a vehicle which has committed an infringement in another member state is indispensable and no longer re-enforceable. when the process is completed, there will be no more unjustified impunity due to the inability to put in place effective sanctioning procedures. i am glad that the important subject of correlation tables has not jeopardized parliament's ability to express a strong position at the table with the council. it would have been original if a similar argument, even dismissed as laughable when it was raised in the case of eurovignette - a matter certainly more debated than this at parliamentary level - had instead been considered decisive today in this case. in any case, we must deal with this issue once and for all in the future and we must not leave the evaluation of the merits of each individual dossier to the political and numerical weight of those who use the same correlation tables.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we voted on today on the european union legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, the so-called 'mad cow', is a testimony to the goodness of european policies adopted in the field of human and animal health protection. the number of cases has certainly decreased sharply in recent years, and this allows us to apply less alarming countermeasures; for example, in the case of one male within a herd, it is possible not to slaughter the whole herd, but to exploit its milk production until it is exhausted. we all remember with great concern the images of entire herds being slaughtered in the case of a head that had the disease and this is something we will avoid. but we must continue to be vigilant, mr president, because the text approved today presents a major health limit and allows the use of animal flour, and this is a limit we must continue to monitor.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this important own-initiative report by mr de grandes, which not only covers the question of security scanners but represents a step forward for an integrated and coherent strategy on aviation security in general. today, the prevention of possible terrorist attacks is still a priority in air transport and we must do more in this area. it is therefore important that security scanners can be included in the list of control methods, with appropriate rules for their use and with the guarantee for the protection of the health, privacy and rights of passengers in general. i would have preferred to see more bold steps towards greater uniformity and compulsory status of the 27 member states' resources and procedures, in line with the common security area we are building, but i realise that there is still strong resistance within the council and for these reasons i thank mr de grandes again for the excellent summary work he has done on this dossier.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very proud to say that my country finally passed a law last tuesday introducing 'pink quotas' on the boards of publicly traded and publicly held companies. unfortunately, italy has barely reached 4% of women in the cdas. other countries have already adopted similar legislation and i hope many more will do so in the coming months. competent and qualified women must be able to grow in the workplace on an equal footing with their male colleagues, demonstrating and asserting their skills. you know, occupying a post solely on the basis of merit and professionalism is certainly more rewarding and less humiliating, but i am convinced that we need to carry out a real 'pink revolution' with the ultimate aim of increasing the presence of women, without necessarily having to resort to quotas. in the future, through our daily efforts, equal opportunities must not only be recognised by law, but must be an essential value of society, based not only on gender equality but on genuine cultural equality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr fajon's report because i believe it is important to coordinate the countries which belong to the so-called schengen area with regard to the validity of travel documents for crossing external borders. i think the rapporteur's approach to this problem is correct, since the member states must retain their right to recognise or not recognise what documents are valid for crossing borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this list will make it easier to work at the frontiers and will also make it easier to detect forged documents. europe is a resource for the present and even more so for the future, so working together to coordinate our activities, also in the important area of the movement of people, is another step forward for a true european union.
in writing. − in order to cross the external borders between the eu member states, certain travel documents were required at the time of the intergovernmental cooperation on schengen. the list of travel documents enabled the border control authorities to verify whether a particular travel document was recognised by the schengen code and consular staff to verify whether the member states considered it necessary to affix the visa sticker. in the present institutional and legal framework, we believe that the list of travel documents should be kept up to date and that the member states should communicate their position on whether or not to recognise such documents, in the interests of simplification and efficiency, thus ensuring the fullest possible information in this respect. we are also of the opinion that the list of travel documents should be legally binding. the proposed wording duly respects the competence of the member states to recognise or not to recognise travel documents and, at the same time, guarantees legal certainty after the given period, which could indeed be longer than the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential to create legal certainty as regards the list of travel documents which allow the crossing of external borders and on which a visa can be affixed. the list of travel documents would allow border control authorities to verify whether a particular document is recognised for the crossing of external borders. the second would allow consular staff to verify whether member states recognise a particular travel document for the purpose of affixing the visa sticker.
in writing. - in a logic of increasing the flow of border crossings by both european citizens and third country nationals, as the data of recent years show (for study, work or family reunification, etc.), i believe it is timely and most appropriate that the european union should revise the rules to be implemented regarding the travel documents necessary to cross borders. the text has two strengths: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the extension of the period of validity of the visa, in order to simplify and increase the bureaucratic efficiency of the border control authorities checking the acceptability of a particular travel document and to draw up a list of travel documents enabling consular staff to verify whether or not a given document is recognised by the member states for the purpose of affixing the visa sticker. i therefore consider that the report we voted on today in the chamber, and for which i voted in favour, represents in itself a step forward towards the unification of documentary recognition within the european union, in particular by providing legal certainty and alleviating the bureaucratic difficulties in applying the freedom of movement of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr tzavela's report because it underlines the fundamental role that fast internet access can play in economic recovery, as a major support for innovation and productivity in all economic sectors. broadband will enable the development of new areas, such as online healthcare, which will help reduce red tape and bring significant savings. i also share the rapporteur's call for member states to establish national broadband plans and to take measures to promote new capacities and skills to offer ever more innovative services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr tzavela. the rapid spread of information, trade and social interconnections require the development of effective policies on technological infrastructures, which are now essential for the common life of our citizens. the eu must move quickly to a competitive broadband market that facilitates services while creating new jobs and new business opportunities. it is necessary to support and implement investments in the technology sector in order to achieve the ambitious goals of the digital agenda and the targets set by the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth, including through the active involvement of the private sector, which is a key part of this strategy. i share the need for member states to adopt shared and coordinated broadband policies and strong public policies to ensure that this vital tool is widely used, even in the most remote areas. a europe that is a leader in this area will offer significant growth opportunities by ensuring competitiveness, free competition and greater choice for consumers.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, broadband is an innovation that can help us to get out of the crisis. it is an important stimulus for the modernisation of europe. the european union considers it a priority to enable all sections of society to benefit from digital technology. the objective to be pursued is to be able to guarantee 100% broadband coverage for all european citizens by 2013. the aim of improving dialogue and giving impetus to development is absolutely acceptable. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − while all member states have a national broadband strategy, only a few have fully operational programmes that include the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, such as: ensure non-discrimination, promote available technologies and avoid measures that impose an unfair burden on consumers and businesses. we believe that broadband services are an essential factor for the competitiveness of the economy and are necessary to enable all regions and all sections of society to benefit from digital technology in the european union. we therefore call on the member states to open up competition between networks to the fullest extent possible, in order to avoid both market-distorting subsidies and the emergence and abuse of dominant market positions. they should promote and extend free access to high-speed connectivity to important public infrastructure located in remote areas as a means of improving public service. finally, we believe that the european union should invest more in research into future communication technologies, both fixed and mobile, and should develop joint technological initiatives in these areas, involving universities, research institutes, device manufacturers and providers of services and content.
in writing. - i fully support this report by mr tzavela. the development of broadband can be beneficial to economic recovery, by supporting innovation and making transactions faster and easier. the deployment of high-speed broadband networks in europe is very important for the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. broadband development is particularly important for disadvantaged areas such as mountainous areas, where new technologies can support the creation and facilitate the activities of new smes, with the consequent possibility of creating new jobs.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (- > point 1.6.10). the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus. the provision of high-speed broadband networks at european level is important to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in order to stimulate smart and sustainable economic growth, improve the employment situation, strengthen europe's competitiveness, foster scientific research and innovation and thus enable all regions, cities, municipalities and all segments of society to benefit from digital technology and to have the opportunity to take advantage of new digital technologies for public services. in this connection, mr tzavela's report stresses that europe should achieve a competitive market for broadband infrastructure and services in order to facilitate investment. the report stresses the importance of using all available technologies to increase broadband access, including in the most remote areas. this will promote innovation, competitiveness and consumer choice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the development of a suitable european information technology backbone is an indispensable element for the development of the economy and the revival of our companies. a digital connection of at least 2 mbps accessible to all european citizens by 2013 would bring benefits in all major economic and social sectors, with positive implications for smes, e-government, e-health and e-learning. the digital agenda aims to continue the path already taken by increasing competition in the sector and pursuing policies to address the digital divide between central and peripheral areas.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report on broadband in europe, which sets the objective of ensuring that all europeans have 100% basic broadband coverage by 2013. the provision of fast broadband networks at european level is of key importance for achieving the objectives of strategy 2020 in order to stimulate smart, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion growth, improving the employment situation and enhancing competitiveness in europe. achieving fast services is also crucial for research institutes, to ensure the free flow of knowledge, improving service even for remote areas. the development of new information technologies is a great opportunity to improve communication between citizens and the eu institutions.
in writing. − to foster innovation, business development, the civic growth of european society and consumer choice, broadband infrastructure needs to be brought to bear, including and especially in the most remote areas where the highest levels of digital technology investment are often abandoned. the figures released by the director of dg regio, mr rudolf niessler, at the 'every european digital' event, are not encouraging in this respect: only 418 million of the 2.3 billion allocated to the spread of broadband in the community countries has been actually used. but these funds have not found the right channels of communication. this is because sometimes projects are not convincing to investors or go against the priorities of individual states, whose governments are forced to economic constraints by sacrificing a broad common vision of the future, as the eu hopes. the proportion of households connected to broadband in italy is less than 50%, compared with a european average of 61%. without broadband, however, italy, like other countries, is likely to soon fall back into the b category compared with other countries which have made extensive use of the funds allocated, and the level of investment and competitiveness will be lost.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr tzavela. europe's future competitiveness is also linked to the development of broadband infrastructure: it is therefore important to use all available technologies to improve broadband access, including in the most remote and hard to reach areas. i believe that the development of broadband will not only encourage innovation but also improve the choice of european consumers and, i believe, facilitate investment in our continent.
in writing. - i am firmly convinced that the right to privacy is one of the cornerstones of democracy. the continuing technological development can jeopardize this right and i therefore believe that the old rules, although still substantially current, must be adapted to new requirements. the report by mr voss, which i supported by voting in favour, highlights the changes that must be made so that every european citizen can be guaranteed, even when he has relations with third country nationals, the privacy that must be protected as a guarantee of our freedom. i also agree with what is stated in the document, namely the adoption of rules with a high level of protection of sensitive data, which ensure the right balance between the right to privacy and the right to information and expression, and finally rules which do not unnecessarily hinder the daily processing of such data. this means that, in general, sensitive data must remain secret, except where the data subject himself expressly wishes to derogate from this rule.
in writing. − the new threats to the protection of personal data caused by technological developments must be adequately addressed by the european union. i am referring, for example, to the widespread use of social networks such as facebook and twitter, which involve the creation of real digital profiles containing personal information that needs protection, which has not been adequately guaranteed to date. i therefore fully support mr voss' report, as it seeks to ensure a uniform level of protection for individuals and to strengthen principles such as transparency, purpose limitation and prior, informed and explicit consent. the data subject must be able to have the data deleted, corrected or blocked and must be informed of any misuse, without however underestimating aspects of great importance such as the need to specifically protect minors. for these reasons, actions such as the introduction of the principle of accountability through the mandatory appointment of data protection officers and the application of severe and dissuasive sanctions, including criminal sanctions, for the misuse and abuse of personal data have my full support, in the belief that the european parliament has taken the right direction to ensure an adequate level of protection for citizens.
in writing. − the rapid pace of technological development in the global information society requires comprehensive and consistent data protection legislation. the current lack of harmonisation between the national laws of the member states makes the adoption of a comprehensive legal instrument at european level necessary. every citizen must have the right not only to be fully informed about the processing of data concerning him, including the sources and recipients, but also to obtain comprehensible information on the logic underlying any automated processing of such data. we therefore support the need to introduce a general principle of transparency for the processing of personal data, to provide for specific forms of protection for vulnerable persons, to maintain the derogations allowed for certain journalistic purposes in order to protect the freedom of the press. finally, we call on the european commission to study the modalities for introducing a general obligation to notify personal data breaches (currently limited to the telecommunications sector only), to set up a system for notifying personal data breaches on the model of that introduced by the eprivacy directive and to provide for a special restrictive regime for 'sensitive data', which will therefore require a clear definition of the latter.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia (- > point 1.6.10). the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. the report endorses the measures on the protection of personal data in the european union envisaged in the commission communication, and draws attention to the principles set out in the 1995 data protection directive which have not been fully implemented in the member states, such as the principle of transparency, the principle of purpose limitation, and the other provisions on consent. the new data protection regime should reduce bureaucratic and financial burdens and carefully assess the application of certain rules by small enterprises.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is important to commit fully to a comprehensive approach to the protection of personal data in europe. this protection must be provided by a set of coordinated legislation which is balanced, that is to say capable of protecting the citizen without placing an undue burden on the bureaucratic duties of the companies. in particular, such rules should not affect the right to freedom of expression and information by unnecessarily hindering the normal and harmless processing of personal data on a daily basis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr voss on the protection of personal data within the eu. i consider it important that the text adopted refers to the measures set out in the 1995 data protection directive, which, for various reasons, have not yet been fully implemented in the member states: i refer in particular to the principle of transparency and the principle of limitation of purpose. the text voted today should mean that the new data protection regime will not only reduce bureaucratic and financial burdens but also involve a more careful assessment of the application of certain rules relating to small businesses.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation under discussion today on consumer information in foodstuffs is one of the most important topics currently under discussion at community level in the food sector and, in my view, to the extent that it can ensure uniformity of rules at union level, it can make a decisive contribution to the revival of the competitiveness of european agri-food businesses. in particular, i believe that the compromise reached and resulting from the interinstitutional trilogues responds both to the need for correct consumer information and to the protection of the key role played by the food industry in the processing of raw materials to produce the 'made in italy' that is recognised and affirmed throughout the world. although i believe that a fair compromise has been reached in the regulation of allergenic substances, by providing for their inclusion in the list of ingredients without the need for repetition elsewhere on the label, i express reservations about the possibility for member states to introduce, at national level, mandatory information in addition to the system of common rules. in my view, there is a risk that we will have to deal with 27 different systems of rules and that we will have to bear the increased costs of periodically updating the advice in each country and reviewing the labels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs sommer's report because i think it is very important to have adopted this regulation which lays the foundations for ensuring a high level of consumer protection in the field of food information, defining in a general way the principles, requirements and responsibilities governing food information, and at the same time reducing trade distortions, burdens and red tape. i appreciate the choice of the ppe group to mediate with the other groups to get the report voted on: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the improvement of the comprehensibility of food packaging will make it possible to distinguish original products from so-called 'like products': this is even more important for italy, which has always been a home of excellent products and is often the target of agri-food piracy.
in writing. - the european parliament's approval of the sommer report shows that it is concerned about the transparency of information on the nutritional value and origin of food, in line with the european consumer's demand for greater safety in the products purchased. parliament adopted a resolution on the commission communication entitled 'the european union's role in the fight against drugs: a strategy for the future' (com (90) 050 final). the s&d group played a leading role in the negotiations, convincing the council and the commission to consider further adoption of rules of origin for meat used in packaged foods, as well as the effects of the use of hydrogenated fats, which are now covered by the legislation. the text approved today marks a recognition of the italian approach, which has already shown in the past how to protect and promote italian and european excellence, and is therefore a source of satisfaction for both italy and the operators in the sector. however, while this is an important step forward, our efforts to ensure that european citizens can make increasingly informed choices about the products they bring to their tables will continue.
in writing. − after almost three years of debate on the right to full and comprehensive consumer information, in which the various players took different positions, we have finally reached a good result that reflects most of the expectations of consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we wanted to bring the public's attention to the important role that a label plays in the final stage of product purchase. the aim is to ensure that consumers can recognise the product and to provide them with the nutritional information necessary for an informed choice. i would also add a healthy choice, considering that an agri-food label is a valuable tool in the prevention of cardiovascular disease and in the fight against obesity. the fight against land piracy is now being intensified and the protection of agricultural and food production is now gaining momentum.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, food labelling protects and informs consumers, allows for a detailed classification of the product and makes the purchaser's choice conscious and safe. finally, at european level, mrs sommer's report has defined a harmonized regulatory framework which will also facilitate those companies which will no longer have to comply with the rules of the member states to which they export their products but which will be able to rely on a single regulation which, although not perfect, is nevertheless a huge development for the european food market. in particular, in the light of recent developments concerning viruses and bacteria transmitted from infected animal meat, i believe that the mandatory origin labelling of fresh meat is important.
in writing. − consumers are at the heart of eu information policy and as such must be best protected. i voted in favour of the report on the provision of food information to consumers, because i believe that the new regulation, as drafted, allows consumers to check directly the composition of the products they buy. the energy content and the percentages of the various ingredients must now be indicated, and the country of origin labelling has been extended to include more products than under the previous directive. the new law not only ensures better consumer protection but also reduces red tape, thereby helping smes, which account for more than 80% of the european food sector.
in writing. - i am convinced that this recommendation will help to boost the competitiveness of agri-food businesses, insofar as it ensures complete uniformity of rules. i regret that the text provides for the possibility for member states to introduce additional compulsory information at national level in addition to the system of common rules. however, the compromise seems to respond both to consumer information needs and to the protection of the important role played by the food industry in processing raw materials for the benefit of the 'made in' concept. with regard to nutrition labelling, i welcome the forecast of the average daily requirement (adr) expressed on the label as a percentage, also with reference to the portion of the food. i believe that clear information to the public on recommended daily intakes can prevent and significantly reduce the pressing problem of obesity, and help consumers to make more informed and healthy choices when buying food. i would also like to support the requirement that a certain font size be used to ensure that the label is clearly legible. finally, i am pleased that the commission has chosen to proceed with caution in introducing the mandatory indication of trans fatty acids, which can be found in food not only as a result of a production process but also as naturally occurring.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr sommer because it will provide a better guarantee for european citizens by significantly improving the rules on the traceability of foodstuffs. it is important to emphasise that the new label will increase transparency in the supply chain, allowing the origin of the product to be understood with certainty at all stages. this is a clear sign of what the community institutions are doing to ensure greater consumer protection and safety, not only in the food sector but also in others, with the principle of traceability increasingly present in various production sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ayala sender recommendation on the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences because i firmly believe in the objective which guided it: road safety. more than two years after parliament adopted the proposal, the agreement reached after the trilogue of 20 june also saw the council accept certain key elements for the extension of road safety legislation at international level. although the council has maintained a rather rigid position throughout the negotiations, i am satisfied with the message that has come out of this parliament, namely that international recognition of serious traffic offences such as speeding, drunk driving and failure to wear seat belts is a fundamental objective to be achieved. the implementation of the legislation we voted on today is of two kinds: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. the new directive is an important step forward in identifying and punishing foreign offenders guilty of serious offences such as speeding, driving under the influence of drugs or not respecting red lights, which claim the lives of many people every year. a new procedure for exchanging vehicle registration information between member states will make it easier to trace foreign offenders, who often enjoy unjustified impunity because of the inability to trigger effective sanctioning procedures. transport commissioner siim kallas also pointed out that foreign drivers are three times more likely to commit offences than residents and that many seem to feel that the rules do not apply to them when they are abroad. with this directive we want to put a stop to this dangerous situation. it is worth recalling that in 2010 there were 30 926 road deaths in the european union and that the economic costs to society are estimated at €130 billion per year. although there has been a decrease in road fatalities of 11% compared to the previous year, much remains to be done to ensure that our citizens are safer on the roads throughout the eu.
in writing. − in europe, the proportion of non-residents involved in road accidents, particularly those caused by speeding, is extremely high. the adoption of the council's position at first reading is a first step towards a common transport and road safety policy. among the substantive changes indicated, many provisions originally proposed and strengthened have been removed entirely from the text. as a result, the new text now limits itself to an exchange of information between member states through an electronic data exchange network to identify the vehicle which committed the infringement. three member states will not participate in the directive, as the new legal basis chosen by the council has allowed an opt-in option for ireland and the united kingdom and an opt-out option for denmark. this decision will have a negative impact on the fair and equal treatment of european citizens, maintaining a general feeling of impunity. we therefore propose that member states should be required to communicate more effectively and more strictly, and that these obligations should be strengthened in terms of timing and content. we are in favour of a review of the enforcement procedures and the harmonization of road rules and inspection procedures.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, ensuring safety on the european road network is the primary objective of this recommendation on the council's position, a text which after two years of work seems to have reached a real conclusion with a good agreement on road traffic in europe. that is why i voted in favour of the directive which will allow the exchange of information between european countries on traffic offences, in particular to combat drunk driving, speeding and the failure to wear seat belts. states will also be able to recognise the infringement at international level and to apply appropriate sanctions accordingly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is extremely important to continue on the road to harmonizing the road codes of the various countries of the european union. in particular, it is necessary to allow for an adequate exchange of information at cross-border level to ensure the prosecution of road traffic offences even if they are committed in countries other than the country of residence. the proportion of non-residents involved in road accidents, particularly those caused by speeding, is unfortunately still extremely high. as if that were not enough, the penalties imposed for infringements committed by a driver in the territory of a member state other than that of residence still remain unpunished in most cases. this undermines the eu's road safety objectives, and weakens the legitimacy of these checks in the eyes of european citizens. we must now continue along this path so that closer cooperation between member states can ensure ever more complete road safety throughout the european network.
in writing. - i am in favour of the parliament and council directive to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road safety infringements. the proposal arises from the fact that penalties imposed for infringements committed by a driver in the territory of a member state other than that of residence are in most cases unpunished, in particular for automatically registered infringements. the text allows for the exchange of data and leaves greater autonomy to the states in road safety matters. in addition, there is no harmonisation of national road codes, as the aim remains to punish irresponsible drivers when they commit offences in a member state other than their own.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr ayala sender because i consider it to be a step forward towards a common transport policy in the field of road safety. the establishment of a procedure for identifying the data of the owner of the vehicle with which a cross-border infringement has been committed is of considerable importance. until now, despite the existence of numerous bilateral agreements between member states on the identification and transfer of data, the offenders have enjoyed unjustified impunity due to bureaucratic obstacles. the adoption of this text - which has the disadvantage of not introducing a standard european model for the notification of infringements - will undoubtedly raise safety standards on european roads and motorways, allowing the identification and possible punishment of offenders.
in writing. − as laid down in article 312 tfeu, the regulation on the multiannual financial framework is adopted by the council after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. article 312 (5) provides for the three institutions to work together to find a solution 'in the course of the procedure for adopting the financial framework': this implies the need for preliminary negotiations. as mr böge has pointed out in his report, these negotiations have not taken place. the council has asked parliament for a mere approval, without any attempt to reach a common solution. the council has also failed to respond to parliament's request for greater flexibility. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that parliament cannot give its approval to the draft council regulation establishing the financial framework for 2007-13. i hope that the voice of this institution will be heard in all future proposals, as article 312 of the tfeu requires.
in writing. − this recommendation on the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-13 underlines that the council adopted the draft without consulting parliament, thus breaching article 312 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which was intended to strengthen the role of parliament itself. as this recommendation concerns a purely procedural matter, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - with regard to the multiannual financial framework, we believe that, in view of the increase in needs and the reduction of margins, as well as the increasing use of the flexibility instruments provided for by the iia (adjustment and revision of ceilings and mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union solidarity fund and the emergency aid reserve), greater flexibility is needed. we believe that the present interinstitutional agreement should be considered operational until the new regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework enters into force, with the exception of the points in the annexes which are now considered obsolete following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in strasbourg on the situation in the former yugoslavia. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, a new council regulation is necessary for the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013. the council adopted the proposal. the report by mr böge highlights the disagreement. the main reason is that the proposal does not provide for flexibility in the event of a revision of the mff below 0.03% gross. parliament stressed the need to maintain the current flexibility and in this case the unanimity of the council was not necessary to decide on a revision. after seeking legal advice, parliament considered that the existing rules, which are still part of the interinstitutional agreement, should remain in force until the new regulation providing for the entry into force of the mff. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) was adopted unanimously.
in writing. - the report on the commission's work programme for next year contains points which i strongly disagree with. the call for the eu to establish new forms of own resources and the renewed desire to continue the process of enlargement in the balkans area mean that my vote cannot be in favour of the joint resolution. it also contains points which i share, particularly on the work programme on agriculture, the economy and sme policy. i therefore abstain.
in writing. - in recent years, the agri-food industry has been affected by a number of epidemics, the most representative of which is certainly the disease of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses), commonly known as mad cow syndrome. in the mid-1990s, the spread of this disease in the union was more than 2 200 cases and has so far resulted in 207 deaths. i would like to point out that this epidemic has radically changed not only the european framework for the management of food crises but also the public's perception of these issues. even today, more than a decade later, a eurobarometer survey shows that 62 percent of europeans feel that they are unable to protect themselves against diseases such as mad cow disease. it is therefore important for citizens to know that there is constant monitoring of spongiform diseases in europe, which can prevent and ensure, if necessary, early detection. i agree with the rapporteur on the validity of the commission's proposals on the 'tes plan 2nd edition'. finally, i hope that the member states, together with the european union, will ensure that the european legislation on feed and food is strictly applied.
in writing. - we all remember the very serious consequences of the "mad cow" syndrome, a striking example of how the desire to get rich as quickly as possible often overpowers everything, in this case leading to very serious consequences both from the point of view of health and economic. we remember the many cases of deaths and the crisis in the beef sector. changing the habits of herbivorous animals is an example of how human nature is much more willing to recognize itself in unlimited enrichment. it is true that the number of tse/bse cases in the european union has decreased sharply in recent years, and this is an important evidence of the effective prevention measures taken in recent years. however, i fully agree with the rapporteur that, given the seriousness of the phenomenon, control and surveillance measures must be strengthened. i also fully agree with the need to encourage research in this area where knowledge is not yet complete. only in this way will it be possible to adopt and justify future policy decisions and protect the health of citizens in the global system.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my support for mrs roth-behrendt's report is a tribute to the success achieved in recent years through constant monitoring action which has led to the almost total eradication of the bse problem on the basis of the number of positive cases in europe which has fallen from 2167 in 2001 to around 65 in 2009. the difficult time europe experienced during the bse epidemic is still alive among european citizens who for the first time faced a food emergency, but also a production collapse that devastated the economy of many rural areas. we therefore welcome the second edition of the strategy paper on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, so that monitoring can be effectively continued alongside the development of rapid ante- and post-mortem tests for the diagnosis of bse and research into this animal health problem, which has become a bad chapter in european agriculture.
in writing. − consumer protection, animal health and the eradication of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies are our main objectives and must therefore be of the utmost importance in the evaluation of changes to the current rules. for this reason, we call on the commission and the member states to continue to monitor their development closely, with particular attention to the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse). we believe that the primary objective of any measure in this area should always be to achieve the highest level of consumer protection and food safety. the precautionary principle should therefore always prevail where scientific knowledge is not sufficiently advanced or in-depth. the commission will be required to inform parliament of any new findings in this area; the proposed changes to the feed ban will only be supported under certain conditions; processed animal protein derived from animal parts fit for human consumption will have to undergo further sterilisation processes and any changes to the list of specified risk materials will need to be carefully evaluated. finally, we believe that research should be encouraged in areas where knowledge is not yet complete. only in this way will it be possible to adopt and justify all new political decisions in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that we must not let our guard down over the threat posed by transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, which have already threatened european citizens in the past, causing considerable damage to our cattle production. it is now more necessary than ever to clarify the existing legislative framework, updating it on the basis of the latest scientific evidence, in order to make it increasingly useful for consumer protection and animal health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr roth-behrendt on legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and related controls of feedingstuffs and foodstuffs. fourteen years after the summer of 1997, when the outbreak of the so-called 'mad cow disease' broke out, i believe it is essential to insist on the strict monitoring of bovine spongiform encephalopathy and on the monitoring mechanisms, the prohibitions on the use of animal meal in animal feed, the list of specified risk material, the culling of cohorts and mechanically separated meat. only by taking such control measures can we prevent the spread of new, feared epidemics in the member states, which put the health of european citizens at risk.
in writing. the european union, together with all the democratic institutions of the member states, has an undeniable obligation to guarantee the security of its citizens against a global phenomenon such as terrorism. this obligation often involves the difficult task of mediating between restrictions on the exercise of certain freedoms and the guarantee of security. the civil aviation sector is the most concerned. mr pascual's report contributes to the debate and joint reflection of the three institutions with a view to adopting new measures and making further progress in the fulfilment of this duty. i share the call for harmonised eu-wide standards to be put in place, setting out the operating conditions and a set of common standards for the detection efficiency of scanners, and i therefore give my full support to the work done by my colleague.
in writing. − this report proposes the introduction of body scanners at airports, in order to further reduce the risk that potential attackers will be able to carry dangerous materials on board aircraft. the danger of new attacks has not diminished, but has been confirmed by the recent attacks in the united states and sweden, and by the persistence of the al-qaeda group, despite the killing of osama bin laden, and more stringent security measures seem more than necessary. since the report stresses the health risks that could arise from the introduction of the new body scanners and therefore specifies that they can only be introduced after thorough medical investigations have confirmed that they are not harmful to the human body, the report can be adopted and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which also has the merit of reviving the debate on aviation safety. following the 2001 attacks and subsequent terrorist alarms, europe adopted restrictive but necessary measures to ensure the safety of its citizens. in recent years, the alarm has not yet been raised, so the eu now needs to implement harmonised standards on scanners, with particular attention to the use of body scanners, and at the same time common standards on the operation and effectiveness of detection. the use of body scanners must therefore be subject to strict rules to protect the health and privacy of passengers, who must be given the right not to be scanned but to be screened with other equipment. finally, i agree with the decision, set for 29 april 2013, to gradually lift the ban on the transport of liquids, gels and aerosols: by that date, all airports must be equipped with new and reliable equipment capable of carrying out checks on liquids, aerosols and gels. i believe, however, that member states should be given the possibility of reintroducing such controls if situations arise which may jeopardise safety.
in writing. − the new generation of body scanners appears to be able to increase the safety of european union air transport. these are instruments which add value to the effectiveness of security controls at union airports and which also appear appropriate in relation to the risks they prevent. we support their inclusion in the list of screening and control methods and technologies which european citizens can choose from, as we believe it is essential to take all the necessary measures to ensure their safety, without prejudice to their fundamental rights. we are also in favour of the implementation of harmonised standards throughout the european union, setting out the conditions for their use and a set of common standards for detection efficiency. it should not be forgotten that controls, intelligence and surveillance services, the exchange of police information and the analysis of the human factor are fundamental elements that form part of the definition of aviation safety. finally, we believe that the use of body scanners provides an optimal level of protection for european citizens. it is therefore essentially a matter of safeguarding democratic values while at the same time fighting terrorism which threatens them.
in writing. - i congratulate mr luis de grandes pascual on his excellent work. the report on aviation safety, with particular reference to body scanners, was voted on today at the plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg. the eu aviation security legal framework provides member states and/or airports with a list of screening and control methods and technologies to choose from; it is therefore necessary to amend the current legislation to include body scanners in that list, without prejudice to the possibility of installing scanners on an experimental basis or as a more restrictive security measure. i fully share the rapporteur's view that the commission's communication in response to the european parliament's 2008 resolution is positive and i believe that it is essential to evaluate all the different technologies available from next generation body scanners in order to minimise the possible negative health consequences of the radiation emitted by these devices, even if they are low.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that a new global approach to aviation security is needed, one which is able to cope with new terrorist threats and new terror strategies. the screening systems currently in use at european airports for the detection of prohibited non-metallic objects have shown their limitations, while the testing of body scanners has so far produced satisfactory results. it is now necessary to go further on the road to prevention by adopting increasingly effective screening technologies which, through the use of the latest technologies, are able to not interfere with the privacy of citizens and the technical time of control.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr de grandes pascual, which would add body scanners to the list of methods used for checks, provided that the health and rights of passengers are guaranteed by specific rules. after the tragedy of 11 september and the subsequent terrorist acts in various parts of europe (see london, madrid, istanbul), the need for security of european citizens preparing to travel has increased. i therefore fully support the text voted today, which in any case protects the privacy of passengers by providing for a restricted use of scanner images and, in particular cases, allows the right to refuse the use of the scanner and to be checked in a different way.
in writing. - despite the emphasis in mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou's report on the importance of women's presence in decision-making bodies in enterprises, a position which i share, i am not convinced that it is through legislation or quota imposition that we can achieve really positive results in this respect. i also voted against the report because an amendment was adopted. i do not share the intention expressed in this amendment, which has been adopted, to increase the participation of women from ethnic minorities or immigrants in the management of companies.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, as the gender gap in company management bodies needs to be reduced. i support a strong signal from europe on the integration of women at the top of companies, in order to prevent a loss of talent and skills of human potential and to contribute to the performance of companies. the gender diversity factor has a strong impact on the performance of a company. we must act quickly and with quota systems, because the data available to us in the european union are worrying: on average, only 12 percent of the board members of the largest publicly traded companies are women, and only 3 percent are their ceos. in this sense, more space must be given to competent and qualified women and they must be helped through the quota system not to be marginalised from the decision-making process of companies. finally, it is important to address the root of the problem by supporting actions to direct more young women to science and technology faculties, enabling them to reach top positions in sectors with less female representation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i have voted in favour of mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou's report and i now hope that the commission will present a proposal which will become the basis for future and careful discussions on this subject. i am a strong believer in equality between men and women and i believe that women can add value in running businesses. i am not a natural leader, but i think that in some areas it is appropriate to set a good example and introduce through legislation quotas and rules which cannot be achieved by leaving open access. however, precisely because of this 'educational' and exemplary role, i believe that these rules should apply only to public companies, while i believe that private companies should be free to choose and run their business in the way they see fit. and because of that, i abstained on paragraph 16.
in writing. the draft report on women and business management has some positive aspects: implement women's participation in the labour market, at all levels, based on the skills and abilities of individuals. despite their knowledge, women often find themselves hampered by the so-called "glass ceiling" that prevents them from occupying top positions. the report, while agreeable on some points, is less so when it highlights the intention to increase the participation of women from ethnic minorities or immigrants in the management of enterprises. that is why i am voting against the text of the report.
in writing. − in 2009, the european parliament established a special parliamentary committee on the financial, economic and social crisis (cris). the financial, economic and social crisis of 2007-2009 put the current governance system of the economic and monetary union to the test and posed a real threat to the stability of the euro. therefore, about a year ago, i supported the need for an extension of the mandate of the cris special committee, which was then crucial for the development of recommendations for a sustainable eu growth model. in my view, these recommendations should be taken into account by the special committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013. furthermore, i believe that further work is needed to develop a functioning crisis management mechanism at union level and to define a political strategy for the future that is linked to the reform of european economic governance and the eu 2020 strategy. finally, i stress the need to develop mechanisms to develop coordinated policies to overcome the public debt crisis in the member states while promoting employment and close cooperation with national parliaments.
in writing. - the report contains points of agreement, such as the need to focus on the real economy, the only sector that produces secure wealth and can protect the economy from speculation. i am also convinced that the measures for smes, which alone account for 99% of the european production, are in line with this. however, the general tone of the report is marked by a eurocentric view of reality; i cannot, for example, share the rapporteur's repeated calls for the establishment of a new system for the collection of the eu's own resources, an expression which conceals the creation, more or less surreptitiously, of a european tax to finance the union's activities and its intervention programmes in the economy and society of our countries. too much emphasis and too high expectations are placed on the eu2020 strategy, which is a de facto replica of the previous lisbon strategy, which produced nothing but a lost decade in pursuit of phantom community economic and social development programmes. i therefore abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the financial, economic and social crisis. almost two years after the start of the work of the special committee, the report is intended as a document summarising the measures to be taken in various policy areas to define the future political strategy for reforming european economic governance. the report aims to provide the necessary guidelines to respond to the current crisis, but also to prevent future economic and financial imbalances, through 'more europe'. this must be done by combining a strong regulatory package of economic governance with an increase in the budget available. this increase must be achieved through the eu's own resources, made available by financial income support, fines, vat, but above all by the acquisition of new capital on the market, through instruments such as project bonds, which will play an important role in the implementation of strategic infrastructure in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors.
in writing. - we believe that the work undertaken so far within the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis (cris) has enabled us to take a thorough and holistic view of the crisis, draw conclusions and make important recommendations, especially in the field of public investment and fiscal policy. in particular, the extension of the mandate of the special committee has been necessary to develop new recommendations for a european model of sustainable growth, which complement its previous calls already adopted by the european parliament; to develop mechanisms and coordinated policies to exit the sovereign debt crisis in the member states and prevent its recurrence, addressing its root causes while promoting strong and sustainable growth and employment, and to develop close cooperation with national parliaments. we also believe that further work is needed to improve a functioning crisis management mechanism at eu level and to define a political strategy for the future of supervision, including and linked to the reform of european economic governance, the eu 2020 strategy, fiscal policy, financial impact, financial regulation, as well as the reform of global governance and the representation of the european union on the world stage.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that i shall vote in favour of mrs berès' report, which is the result of the joint work carried out over the last 18 months by us members of the cris committee. i would like to stress in particular that unity and solidarity are essential if europe is to succeed in meeting the global challenge, and in this respect i welcome the reference in the report to eurobonds. the current european national bond market is extremely fragmented, and the joint issue of euro bonds can overcome this fragmentation by creating a new european market with a worldwide dimension. the lack of a strong european title with a strong presence on world markets is a problem for the union as a whole, even for those countries with sound public finances. but any solution must avoid that countries with responsible fiscal policies are forced to bail out, in one way or another, 'unruly' states. the concept of eurobonds is based on solidarity, but they must not become a tool to reward unsound policies and weaken the incentives for greater fiscal prudence by states in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it will help to move in the right direction to combat the economic crisis whose consequences we are still suffering. financial markets have not yet stabilised and citizens and businesses are still facing serious socioeconomic threats. the financial, economic and social crisis of 2007-2009 put the current system of governance of the economic and monetary union to the test and, at its worst, the very existence of the eu, its single market and its social base seemed to be in jeopardy. the challenge now is to continue along the path already traced, focusing on public investment and appropriate fiscal policies, developing a new proposal for sustainable growth and developing coordinated mechanisms to exit the public debt crisis in the member states, preventing it from recurring in the future.
in writing. - we are not satisfied with the results of the crisis committee. greece, but also other eu countries, are facing bankruptcy and the percentage of the population in employment is falling steadily. crises are not solved by european taxes, oppressive rules for industry and business, by reducing tariffs to the exclusive benefit of third countries. the objectives which the special committee believes the union should pursue are, in our view, the opposite of the interests of our citizens. the aim of a balanced and fair global trade agreement, which aims to reduce the differences between the emerging and developed economies by removing trade barriers, is to liberalise unfair competition between producers in third countries and those in europe. the commission even considers that the absence of a world trade agreement is a major disadvantage, since developed economies block agricultural export projects of emerging economies. as if that were not enough, the commission is also concerned with creating job opportunities for roma. it is incredible how far the commission's proposals are from the real needs of european citizens and businesses. that is why we shall vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on an important and demanding resolution which shows the willingness of the european parliament, despite a thousand difficulties, to express a clear position on the events affecting countries such as syria, bahrain and yemen, with all the problems they entail. it is true that what is happening in other countries, such as tunisia and morocco, shows that the road to democracy is possible, it can take different paths, but it is possible. this finding does not, however, eliminate the perception that public opinion has of the policies pursued by the international community and europe itself in these events involving the mediterranean region. and this perception calls into question the idea that a foreign policy can be a double standard in its own way. in essence, one wonders why in libya it is done one way and in syria another. it is not unknown that there are different balances in foreign policy: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. in any case, this is a contradiction which continues to haunt us and which we must know how to deal with. what do you mean, "what"? in two ways: the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and to play a more consistent role in order to give credibility to its presence throughout the region. the european union is not only a political body, but also a political body, and it is also a political body, and it is a political body. and this work must be done now with the necessary strength and determination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation with regard to the so-called arab spring is in many ways in danger of turning into a cold winter, and the concern expressed by many colleagues speaks to that effect. in a very good speech this morning, president tusk also mentioned the possible development of the neighbourhood policy. he also referred to the crisis in the southern mediterranean and spoke of measured and reasoned interventions. i would urge you to go beyond this reasonable caution for one simple reason: when we intervened in the crisis theatre of the soviet bloc countries, we probably did so quickly and well, and the consequences were obvious. when we intervened in the balkans crisis theatre, we waited too long, we delayed too long, and the consequences were tragic. if we do not give coherence, strength and resources to action that shows that the axis of the crisis has shifted in recent years from the east to the south, we shall not be able to interpret fully the desire for justice, development and peace of the peoples of the southern mediterranean area. i believe that you can do a great deal to achieve this and that you can also appeal to the polish presidency to make the efforts we have made in these months effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, commissioner, the impression is that we are struggling to bring all the instruments together and to give even small but tangible signals. we have political dialogue, trade policy, development cooperation, immigration policies, humanitarian aid with separate officials, procedures and budget lines, and sometimes europe plays the three card game by using the policy that pleases us, but we must help those who deserve it the most with all the possibilities and update all the instruments. for example, trade with egypt and tunisia cannot continue under the same agreements for the other countries in the region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. the osce, the council of europe, are reaching the caucasus and central asia, while an organization for mediterranean cooperation for integration is missing. what steps are we going to take in this direction? the european parliament is currently calling for a specific erasmus for the mediterranean and why is the commission not immediately taking up this initiative? an arab employee of a multinational can get a visa to europe, but a tunisian small businessman who wants to sign a contract cannot. it is your role, madam high representative, not to disperse any initiative and to make a coherent composition of all our actions among the many rooms of the european union, otherwise the change will sweep and inspire the mediterranean, but it will not have inspired us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, commissioner füle, we have understood that there are countries in the arab world and in north africa that are asking us to do something. public opinion demands that europe be close to that wind of freedom, that yearning for dignity, and it is a demand that is made of us and when i say 'we' i mean europe. it is right that europe should ensure that the international community is present, but that question, the question of those countries, is addressed directly to 'us'. we can rightly engage in all diplomatic efforts to get the international community to intervene, but it cannot intervene unless europe has a policy for the mediterranean. we must strengthen this will to have a mediterranean policy. it is said, and it was said very well, during the debate on the syrian issue: "let's meet her in turkey". but, high representative ashton, we must have a clear idea of our relationship with turkey, it cannot be an intermittent relationship. one day we want her close to us, and the next day we don't want her close to us, it's not possible. europe must speak out clearly about its relations with turkey, and today we realise how important it would have been in the past to bet on turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, political and intercultural dialogue remains the winning approach to restoring peace to the citizens of the arab world, which is currently suffering from upheaval and turmoil. short-sighted tyrants and sometimes religious fundamentalism have caused violence and disorder, but also the revolutions that are liberating some territories from these cruel and violent tyrants, often unable to hear the voices of their people. the syrian dissident summit in recent days is a possible turning point towards a national dialogue that is hoped to lead to a new and more fruitful relationship between the opposition and president assad. the unresolved middle east issue does not diminish the complexity of a time when there are other conflicts between syria and turkey and a difficult regulating of irregular migration flows to the west. the climate in lebanon has also deteriorated considerably, and this is affecting the stability of the area. we don't talk about libya because others have. but there are some surprising signs: in morocco, the referendum just held scored 98.5 percent "yes" to constitutional reform, and a very high percentage, 72 percent of the population voted. this is the way forward, together with a more renewed, more effective and more incisive neighbourhood policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the syrian poet adonis has written an open letter to president assad, in which he says: "mr president, no one believes that democracy can be achieved in syria immediately after the fall of the current regime, but in comparison it is incredible and unrealistic that systematic violence continues in syria to restore order. and that's the problem. the foundations of democracy must be laid from the beginning, now and not tomorrow. on the other hand, without democracy, there will be nothing but backsliding to the brink. "the 'dungeon' of which the poet speaks, in syria is widening every day: the filmmakers are shot, even 11-year-olds are imprisoned, some army officers are getting tired of it and are starting to desert. many would follow them if they could more easily cross borders with neighbouring states. even today, the corriere della sera says, analyzing the syrian situation: "in syria, the protest is not going away, assad is not falling, the world is not seeing". mrs ashton, europe is the only institution that can show the world what is really happening, it is the only institution that can give a real signal, that can help, but above all give a horizon for the future. it is time to invest in the mediterranean, and therefore to choose to assume a world of peace and stability for the future, it is time to be courageous and to let that european flag which, as you told us, is flying in benghazi be a signal for the whole mediterranean area.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, can i first of all thank everyone who has contributed to what has been a long but truly important debate. when we began, i think it was mr salafranca sánchez-neyra who said that we had to make sure we met people’s expectations – those of our people and those of the people of the region we are seeking to support. in a sense, that idea frames all of the contributions that honourable members have made in the course of the debate this afternoon. i have been struck by many of the different elements of those contributions. i was particularly struck that the word ‘dignity’ – one i did not use in my initial contribution – was used by so many honourable members as a way of describing what we are seeking to develop as we support the people of the region in their future quest for democracy and human rights. i think dignity is exactly the right word. not surprisingly, many contributions have focused on syria. of all the countries and all the issues we are dealing with, syria perhaps provides the greatest challenge. honourable members have come up with important new ways in which we could support the people of syria and extend our action. extending sanctions is something we have done twice already, and we will continue to look at that option. mr verhofstadt described the idea of some 200 families being included in this respect, and we will certainly take that idea forward. i know that the desire to see safety provided for the people on the ground leads us to wonder how best we can achieve that – beyond the exhortations, the words and the pressure at the security council, and collaboration with our neighbours – and several speakers mentioned the idea of a safe zone. however, it is important to understand that providing some kind of safe zone for people on the ground would require a security council resolution: otherwise it would be illegal under international law. many of the roles and ideas that honourable members have suggested are already being worked on, in one way or another, in our work in new york. it is interesting too that next week there will be a debate at the un on the whole question of responsibility to protect, and it will be interesting to see what emerges there as a result of these issues, not least in syria. honourable members asked too whether we can do more with diplomats. we keep a delegation on the ground because their job is to continue talking to the people of syria, and that is what they do. we have a head of delegation. we have removed people whom we have been able to move out of the country to safety, but we have a head of delegation and a very small team, and i really do pay tribute to the people who remain through all this turmoil and continue to support the work of the european union. the work of the head of delegation is very much about day-to-day contacts with civil society and groups of intellectuals, talking to people about what is happening, and also continuing to make approaches to, and put pressure on, the government on our behalf. i hear what people say about asking member states to remove ambassadors, and that is a tool we could look at. i could recommend it, though i cannot enforce it, but i am also very keen to do as we have done in the case of libya, which is to keep talking to ambassadors about what they believe is happening in their respective countries. you will know that many ambassadors to libya have ended up deciding that their future does not lie there. however, this is an issue we will continue to consider. i think the message about the children who are in prison is a significant one and i absolutely agree with it. it is essential that we continue the pressure to have all children taken out of prison. we will do all that we can within the operational framework we have, and we will continue to work with our partners, not least with turkey, which many have mentioned as a key partner here. i have already indicated that we are in touch with turkey, that i am in touch with foreign minister davutoglu, and that we are supporting turkish efforts not only in relation to the work with refugees – and we have met refugees in turkey – but also as turkey continues to make its own representations in syria. there was a concern, which i described, about the echoes from syria that go across to lebanon, and about the question of hezbollah. it is true that the mikati government is supported by hezbollah, but mr mikati is not a man of hezbollah. i think we need to try and give this government a chance to succeed. our resources are directed at civil society and the development of the economy and an independent judiciary, and of course we fund the special tribunal. the amount of assistance is eur 50 million, not the figure of eur 200 million which was mentioned by one honourable member. honourable members have also worried about iran. of course we have enormous concern about what is happening in terms of the development of their nuclear weapons programme. as you know, i have worked very hard to try and get the talks moving. we have had two rounds. i have just written to dr saeed jalili in response to his letter to me, saying once again that what we have put on the table remains there, and that we are open to ideas they might put forward for taking us into a new round of talks – but with the purpose of finding a solution. we are also continuing our pressure on them for human rights violations. i said earlier that i have issued a statement today on what has been happening to women in iran, but we have also taken action and sanctions against those who prevent people from having their human rights fully and properly recognised. in addition, we discussed a number of what i would call rather more internal issues, so let me deal with those briefly. when we decide to have an eu special representative, we look for the person whom we believe can best do the job in hand. stefan füle and i and the 27 foreign ministers and other commissioners spend a lot of our time in our neighbourhood and our region. we are your political eyes and ears. we are the people who perform that political function. sometimes a special representative who has ministerial experience is incredibly valuable, and sometimes we are looking for different skills. in the case of the special representative for the southern mediterranean, i looked for somebody who had strong and long diplomatic experience, especially in that neighbourhood, to back up what stefan füle and i do – not to replace it but to back it up – by being able to bring together at a different level the type of people we bring together at a ministerial level. in relation to the task-force idea, a lot of work goes on internally. stefan füle particularly is tireless in bringing various people together, but what i was looking for was a response to those who say ‘you need to engage the international financial institutions and countries that wish to support the neighbourhood but to do it collaboratively with the eu’. at that level it would be ministerial, and stefan and i would be there, but the question is about how we bring in extra resources, through the eu special representatives, to do particular jobs. i know that bernardino león – whose reputation goes before him, not just in europe – will do a superb job on behalf of us all. i do not rule out involving ministers. i know miguel moratinos well. to the brazilians who were here i extend my congratulations on their countryman’s appointment to the director-generalship of the fao, but you will understand too that i may have supported my dear friend miguel for that role. i hope we will see him engaged again in european issues, alongside many others whom honourable members may propose. i agree, too, about the involvement of local people in our planning. ‘planning for real’ was something in which i was engaged for many years, and it is about local people having the opportunity to work together to decide what their local communities will be. it is of absolutely core importance to having the sort of communities that are sustainable and can be developed for the future. ms lunacek, specifically in response to your point about money: the figures are eur 750 million of new money, and eur 490 million either in programmes that are under-spent or in money we have recycled in other ways. so the total figure is much higher than you had feared. all of the indicative programmes are now being reviewed to make sure that they fit, and all of the instruments will be revised in order to make sure that they fit with the new strategy and, just as importantly, that they are tailored to be able to respond to the needs of each country. we are doing this as swiftly as we can because one of the challenges, as honourable members have rightly pointed out, is to ensure we respond in good time to needs which are already very obvious. similar considerations apply in relation to mobility. we have proposed working with each country to establish mobility partnerships, visa facilitation agreements and visa liberalisation arrangements. we agree that mobility is really important, as is trade. i agree completely with those who argue that, by supporting engagement with the markets in these countries, and particularly with small businesses, which are the backbone of all economies, we will gain because we will be creating new markets for ourselves. and we know the consequences of not doing that. it is true that we want to build the union for the mediterranean secretariat to take forward the six regional projects, and we are working on that right now. i will finish with a couple of key points. first of all, in relation to the middle east peace process, what i commit to is to do my best. we have worked very hard. i have spent more time, since i took office, on the middle east peace process than on any other issue. we work tirelessly and we work with all parties, across the region and internationally, in trying to achieve what we all know is the right answer: two countries, side by side, living in peace and security for generations to come. the challenge for us is how to try, now even harder than ever, to make that scenario a reality on the ground. more than anything else, for the palestinian people, the issue that is going to be of enormous significance in the coming weeks and months is that of getting a country that is sustainable – a state that is theirs. more than anything else, for the people of israel, achieving that with the security of israel at the heart of the arrangements is going to be what matters. from my point of view, this is not about being pro one side or the other. the desired solution is for both of them, and i want to see both of them achieving that as quickly as possible. more than ever – with the changing neighbourhood and the challenges economically and politically – the time to do this is absolutely now. i will say that on monday, and i will do my best to get us to the point that i know we have to be at. i am prepared to fail, by being prepared to be as strong as i possibly can be. i agree on many of the things about which people feel passionately in relation to gaza. i really understand that. going into gaza to see the circumstances there, particularly for children and young people, is really tough. it is really tough to see kids in schools that are running double shifts –children who want what our kids want, what all kids in europe want, the same kind of lives – and knowing what the difficulties are. we have to find ways to alleviate the problems of gaza and to deliver for the people i have met there who want everything that i want: economic security, a good education for their children, somewhere to live, to feel safe and to have a future. that is what we have to deliver and we have to deliver it in the best possible way. i think this is about getting the crossings open and finding a solution for the people of gaza that brings them peace and security. however, i have also seen the rockets that have been launched into israel. i went and saw racks and racks of them, and i saw that children had to play underground because of fear of the rocket attacks. again, we have to do what we are doing for both sides. we have to understand that the solution must give both communities the future and the security that people want, and we will do everything we can to that end. honourable members, there are many points we could have discussed which i did not raise now because we have discussed them before. camp ashraf, i know, is really important. i get more letters from you on that than on any other matter, and you know that i am working with foreign ministers and internationally to try to find a suitable solution. finding our way through that issue is very complicated and difficult, but we are engaged with it. on the issues concerning religious groups, coptic christians and others, again this is something i raise with all of the countries concerned and something about which we have not forgotten. my final point concerns south sudan. when i leave tonight i will head back to brussels and then out to juba to represent the european union at the birth of a new country. i met with the foreign minister from the north this week and i made it very clear to him that we expect them to do what they need to do to prevent the fighting that is going on in south kordofan, and to make sure that we do not have spillover violence in blue nile. i am really alarmed about what is happening at the borders there and i am alarmed at the prospects for this new country, in terms of what is needed to enable them to cope. but we will be with them, and my purpose in being there as they raise their flag is to convey that the european union will be there, not just on the day the country comes into being but also in the long term, to build the deep democracy and the strong economy that we know the people want and deserve. (applause)
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 july 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by véronique de keyser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's external policies in favour of democratisation [2011/2032(ini] (a7-0231/2011).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i would like to thank ms de keyser for the work that she has done. i just want to bring up three very brief points. first, that building democracy means we need to build deep democracy. we need to make sure that democracy takes root and is not just a process of one electoral cycle, but it is about all of the institutions that go alongside it. as ms de keyser says, it is linked to all of the other elements, such as development, where we need to make sure that we are helping the societies build a flourishing democracy for the future. second, our electoral observation missions play an important part in making sure that democracy can do that. a number of members have participated in those and i thank all of you for the work that you have done, not least, again, ms de keyser for her work in sudan. not an easy mission by any means, but one accomplished extremely well. third, with regard to a proposal for an endowment for democracy: a number of times i have thought of ideas and ways in which i believe we can support the people of the region only to be told that i cannot do it, because supporting some of the political processes is impossible under the instruments of the european union. most importantly, i want to see ways in which we can support young people to continue to be in touch with each other using the new media, using the chat rooms, twitter, facebook and so on. these are the ways in which they already have been in touch and the ways in which they work together in the course of changes and revolutions. these situations require new things, things that are offshore, if you like, and ways in which they can add value. so it is not about replacing what we already do well, it is about doing things we simply cannot do under the instruments we currently have, but which we can identify as being of great value. the challenge for us will be to show and explain to members that this is exactly what we have done. so please do not rule it out, but test us on the proposals that we bring forward.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 july 2011.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in nagorno-karabakh [2011/2688 (rsp) ].
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, the nagorno-karabakh issue is little known and often only through one-sided information, but one clear, indisputable and i would say fundamental point is the principle of the territorial integrity of a sovereign state. the inviolability of frontiers must be respected: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. there have been numerous statements on the nagorno-karabakh conflict and the following were mentioned: the european union has also taken steps to ensure that the eu is able to meet its obligations under the helsinki declaration of 2008, four un security council resolutions and our parliament has also spoken on the matter. the territorial integrity of a sovereign state is guaranteed by international law and to question this principle is to encourage future military aggression and attempts to change the international status quo, with destabilising consequences throughout the world. europe has a particular interest in the settlement of the nagorno-karabakh issue, because armenia and azerbaijan are part of the eastern partnership project, which expressly provides for stability and cooperation between partner countries. so we have to work for it. i would also remind you that the passage of time is actually consolidating armenia's position in the occupied territories, and this makes it more difficult to reach an agreement and the situation in the area more dangerous.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes at a very opportune time, following an emergency which it would be neither right nor wise to underestimate if we are to think about what is happening and will unfortunately perhaps continue to happen in libya. with these scenarios in north africa, do we want to dismiss the possibility that there could be an emergency maybe twice, ten times, god forbid, a hundred times bigger? it was foreseen by a great french writer, jean raspail, many decades ago, and today we are very close to this situation. so let us think carefully before we criminalise a small liberal country like denmark that decides to defend its borders. i am prepared to make a eulogy of borders, not that we should criminalize the existence of borders. when there are checks to be made and when a country feels that it is giving priority to the safety of its citizens, this decision must be respected and this should be democracy according to rules shared by all european countries. so we are very careful and we think with great concern about the danger of a biblical exodus from africa. this danger exists and it is very close, very close, surely... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than 20 years since the schengen agreements were signed. no one doubts the benefits of free movement, but it must be recognized that the current system is no longer adequate for present and future needs. that is why the member states and the eu as a whole must work to review the mechanisms of schengen's operation, so that freedom of movement does not come at the expense of the legitimate need for security on the part of our citizens. as far as we know so far, the commission's guidelines may also be partially acceptable, especially as regards the introduction of a mechanism allowing states to temporarily reintroduce border controls in the event of an emergency. but it remains to be seen how this will be achieved and whether the declarations will be followed by the facts, and above all by concrete results. it is also clear that a general reform of the european border protection system will have to be undertaken, especially the external border protection system, where frontex must be transformed as soon as possible into an agency with real powers of intervention and support for the national authorities. we must protect our external borders if we are to continue with this schengen.
the resolution we are about to vote on is important and timely, because it sets out and clarifies in an unequivocal way the principles which must guide the action of the european parliament and its representatives in continuing this difficult negotiation with the national parliaments. these principles stem primarily from the treaties, which, by overcoming the pillar structure on the one hand and by giving the european parliament the function of directly representing citizens at union level on the other, make the european parliament a vital source of democratic legitimacy for the cfsp and csdp as union policies. this double innovation is, as is well known, reflected in increased functions and responsibilities, from the vote of approval by the high representative, to the powers of direction defined in article 36, to the budgetary powers which, it should be remembered, make the european parliament the budgetary authority of the vast majority of csdp missions which, as is well known, are civilian missions. however, the reasons for pursuing with firmness and readiness for dialogue the path of a real agreement with the national parliaments are also political and pragmatic. interparliamentary cooperation is useful and necessary to strengthen support for the cfsp and csdp and to increase coherence between them and the choices made by member states at national level. for this very reason, this cooperation must represent in a balanced way the institutions which express the democratic legitimacy of europe at different levels, and an imbalance which would excessively compress the weight of the european parliament would be contrary to the very mission of europeanising the debate on foreign policy, security and defence in europe, which is the very idea behind the establishment of a conference. it is therefore good that tomorrow's vote makes it clear that the willingness to discuss is accompanied by the utmost firmness on certain principles, starting with the fact that, as article 9 of the first protocol clearly states, no regular form of interparliamentary cooperation can be established without the consent of the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, behind the widespread prosperity of our continent there is a europe that is hidden, often invisible, or that we speak of as numbers, statistics and sociology and not as people in the flesh, often women and children or the elderly, that is, the most fragile population. however, europe will not be credible to the citizens unless it learns to be consistent, and we here want to be consistent, in this parliament and at this stage in the life of europe. so if we say that we are building the union on values and human rights, i do not think we can stop or cut so drastically a programme for those who do not eat - in short, for those who do not have the right to food, to access to food, that is to say to fundamental rights - because of an unresolved legal question - it is an agricultural fund, it is a social fund - and if it is a social fund, commissioner, it should not be at the expense of other social programmes, but a new ad hoc fund with appropriate resources. we say that we want to guarantee food security for europeans, but the first right to security is to have it, food, and then to be healthy. so, our consistency is our commitment. it is therefore necessary to find a legal solution which ensures continuity and which, with the help of voluntary ngos, guarantees the first fundamental human right: the one with the food.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this parliament must send a strong message to the commission and the council today, a european message, a message of concern for the weakest. i do not think that this parliament, freely elected by the citizens of europe, can be insensitive to a problem which is more legal than real. we need a new legal basis so that this project of aid to the poor can continue in this financial programming and in the next. that is why i am calling on all my colleagues from all political groups to vote unanimously and consistently in support of this motion so that the council can receive a strong message that will make those who are currently blocking the new legal basis see clearly. we need a new legal basis and parliament is very keen on it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, if there is anything that can be done to make europe hate us, i must say that we are doing our best. we are obviously in danger of producing a contradiction even if we comply with the provisions of a court of justice. i must say, however, that in addition to making amends, and therefore refinancing this budgetary chapter, we must also have the foresight to figure out how to do this. the agricultural chain, the agricultural chain, is a pan-european chain, from budget financing to distribution. the social chain is not. and in many countries it is difficult to understand what the ministry of social affairs is and what its responsibilities are. the food banks will have to organise a dialogue with the social services at the level of national ministries, which will be complicated and costly, so we must not only put the money back in now, but also try to find out what is the most appropriate instrument, otherwise we will put everyone in even more difficulty.
member of the commission. − madam president, i very much appreciate this lively discussion. the message of all the speakers to the commission is very clear. the commission has to keep it in mind and i hope also the other institutions will do the same. all european institutions will have to make joint efforts. i share your concerns about these people, the most deprived people, and i can also accept what we have said: that a european idea is not only about principles and values; it also has to do with implementation and results. so after 2010, the year of poverty, we have to face the situation, and we cannot be happy about the results on our continent. we have to fight poverty in a real and very inclusive way. so let me be clear about the future, the commission now has to assess the situation following the decision of the court. we have to assess the situation, not in a legalistic way, and we have to respect the european institutions. let me remind you of the decision of the court: the court ruled that the volume covered by the plan had to be adapted to the volume of existing stocks. i would also like mention that the wording of the judgment and its grounds left very little room for any change to this position. that is why the commission did not appeal. this is the reason. so what can we do now? we have two problems to face: how to find a permanent solution and an interim solution, as you have very clearly pointed out. what i can say on the interim solution is that the commission proposal for 2010, if adopted, can provide the sum of up to eur 500 million for 2013. we have to work on the basis of your proposals and we are trying to take on board your suggestions about the next two years. with regard to the long-term solution, we have decided to fund this programme through social funding. i can understand your concerns. we all have to work together in order to have this funding. but this should not be to the detriment of other purposes; this is also important. i would like to inform you that the commission has proposed eur 2.8 billion for the social programme for the years 2014 to 2020. we really need to implement our 2020 strategy, which includes the goal of poverty reduction. so this is the situation and we are going to do our best and keep in mind all of your suggestions. let me close with a small reference to my portfolio, i am the commissioner for fisheries. in the framework of the reform for the fisheries policy – which i will propose to the commission next week – we also will create a facility for fish food. we are going to stop discarding, and distribute the fish and the food that would have been discarded in these programmes. so we can all work together to do our best.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start with a quote: ‘looking ahead, the commission confirms that the union would greatly benefit if a number of members of the european parliament were elected from european lists submitted to the whole of the european electorate.’ this is an extract, not from the report presented to you today by your rapporteur, andrew duff, but actually from a communication forwarded by the commission to the convention in 2002. so the commission remains convinced that european lists could help to enhance the transnational dimension of european elections. so let me say a few words about mr duff’s report. first, i note the tremendous personal efforts of the rapporteur – and i would like to thank him – to seek wide support in the parliament on such a complex and sensitive issue. the core of the report concerns the creation of a pan-european constituency to which 25 meps would be elected. i know some members of this assembly are against such lists, but i think it is an idea worth pursuing. it will, however, not be easy to implement and here begin the concerns of the commission. first, i am not sure our fellow citizens will understand the need to increase the number of seats. this was the conclusion of the convention: above 750 members an assembly may find it difficult to function. second, increasing the total number of meps requires a treaty change, unless the 25 meps elected on transnational lists would be part of the existing number. in the commission’s opinion, this procedural difference is very significant. i understand your rapporteur has already tabled amendments to leave the door open. third, it was so difficult to reach a compromise on the allocation of seats between the member states that it hardly seems conceivable to reopen such a debate right now. but such a discussion would be essential, should the 25 meps be part of the whole number here. fourth, the principal elements of the proposed reform would need to be ratified in all member states. in some countries this could even mean a referendum. are we ready to run the risk of a ‘no’ vote now? in the present climate of both institutional fatigue and economic austerity, any referendum would be risky, and the national parliamentary ratification processes cannot be taken for granted either. in any case, the treaty requires the european council to adopt by unanimity a decision on a proposal from this parliament so your assembly – this is a clear message – has the right of initiative on this matter. there is no formal role for the commission. i trust you will present your proposal in time for the european council to decide early enough before the spring-2014 elections. moreover, the report brings forward the idea of creating an electoral authority to conduct and to verify the results of this election. it also provides for the creation of an electoral role to prevent double voting. both instruments would indeed seem necessary and would be put in place after the revised electoral act has been ratified. the commission will need some time to draft a proposal on this. it will also likely take considerable time for member states to agree so this would be only possible for the 2019 elections at the earliest. this brings me to a specific request addressed to the commission to present a new proposal for the revision of the current information exchange system to encourage participation of eu citizens in european elections in the member state where they reside. the commission has already made such a commitment but the proposal has been blocked in the council since 2006 because member states cannot find the unanimity required to adopt this proposal. another demand addressed to the commission concerns statistics and your wish to improve the consistency and comparability of population data provided by member states. on this point, i can announce that commission services are currently working on a draft proposal which should be coming soon. there are many other points in the report. be sure that the commission can only subscribe to principles such as the better representation of women and minority candidates or the respect of democratic rules in the selection of candidates. the commission also supports the idea of having the elections in may rather than in june. so this report concerns constitutional issues rather than simply legislation. the commission is already ready to make some amendments in the procedure for the 2014 elections. i mentioned earlier the way forward with directive 93/109/ec, taking into account the outcome of our debate today, to encourage people to stand and to prevent double voting based on the current ex-ante checks. as regards statistics, the commission is already preparing the proposal to improve the consistency and comparability of population data. finally, three months ago, vice-president šefčovič promised you that he would examine your request to establish a specific european legal status for political parties at european level. the commission is presently looking into the key elements in the giannakou report with an open mind, and it may indeed come back to you in the near future.
the socialist and democratic group believes that the building of a genuine european political area is a decisive condition for continuing on the road to a political europe capable of facing with strength and determination, in an appropriate way, the colossal challenges of this century. the treaty of lisbon has made a major step forward in this respect, particularly on the basis of the principle already mentioned by the rapporteur, mr duff, which makes it clear that the european citizens are directly represented in the european parliament at the level of the union. yet despite these and other important innovations in the treaty of lisbon and despite the fact that everyday life shows us unequivocally how necessary a political europe is, the construction of a genuine european political area is still a long way off. the debate in our member states is too nationally oriented, the political parties are too much discussing only on a national level and the european elections themselves often appear to the citizens as a continuation of the internal political debate, which is also one of the reasons for the low participation. we believe that a reform of the european electoral law which strengthens the common principles can contribute to this europeanisation of the european political debate. of course, this is not the only condition, but it can contribute. the socialist and democratic group, therefore, while being aware of the many problems associated with this proposal, supported the proposal for a transnational list in committee. we have also supported the request for a return to committee, because we understand that a broad consensus is needed on this proposal, but we also believe that we must continue with determination on the road to reforming the european electoral system in order to strengthen the transnational character of these elections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this report is to amend the european electoral law in the direction of the creation of a european federal state. the commission is also proposing to add a transnational electoral college, elected by proportional representation and governed by a european union electoral authority. we are strongly opposed to this choice, both because it does not respect the political forces rooted in the territories, and not at european level, and because of the enormous cost of its introduction. we would have two different types of meps, because it would be unthinkable that meps who have to travel to 27 and then 28 member states could be considered as the others, with what funds would they be able to follow their territory? another point we do not agree with is the establishment of an electoral register of the european union, since its management, from deletion to insertion, modification and control of hundreds of millions of voters, would involve an unnecessary burden on the union's budget. the creation of a single political area at community level would limit the sovereignty of the member states. we believe in a europe of the peoples, which respects the territorial realities, giving them representation and strength, and does not impose itself as a bureaucratic and bossy 'superstate'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the people are the basis of democracy. "people" means identity, unity in history, tradition and ideals, but it also means unity, the will to have a single government. in this context, a unitary electoral system is clearly an instrument for building a people, a european demos. this european demos is not yet fully present, as is shown by the fact that there has been a large drop in participation in the last european elections, and therefore little sensitivity, and as is shown by the fact that national debates have been mainly on national problems and not on european problems. we must therefore implement what the treaty of lisbon proposes. the treaty of lisbon does not impose an obligation on the european parliament to submit, to draw up a uniform electoral law, it merely indicates a power, but it is a power of extraordinary importance and therefore we must not abandon the project of drawing up this reform of the 1976 act. we shall be returning to committee this document from mr duff, whom i thank once again as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the committee on constitutional affairs approved his text almost unanimously, and today it is somewhat reluctant to see it returned. but precisely because we must not be complacent, i believe that what is at stake here is to reformulate a more workable text, one which can have a greater consensus. but whatever happens, the postponement must not be a cover-up. the need for a european vision is not only due to the fact that elections are possible in a transnational body, but also to the fact that the people would directly elect the members of the commission or at least the president of the commission. i would like to conclude with this question, thanking mr duff again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this amendment to the act concerning the election of members of the european parliament gives us the opportunity to state two principles, namely: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, it is wrong to think that the transnational list alone will arouse the interest of the citizens, half of whom are already deserting the ballot boxes in the european elections. innovative criteria of quality and proximity to society are needed. as the italy of values, in the committee, we proposed a ceiling on the mandates of the members, for a replacement of the elected and a dynamic of renewal. an amendment which was rejected, even for reasons which i think are almost laughable, because of a certain self-preservation of the caste of members. we are committed to other changes for the next plenary session: the first concerns the regional dimension of elected representatives and constituencies, of the colleges, to ensure a strong link with the territory of origin, and the second, through both the joint amendment by the socialist and democratic group - and i thank mr gualtieri - and a separate text for a 'clean parliament', as society has called for. a "clean parliament" that introduces the ineligibility for those sentenced to final sentences and who have therefore obtained all the guarantees of a fair trial for very serious crimes, such as terrorism, corruption, organized crime, incitement to racial hatred and so on. it is a shame that today those who have been tainted by such crimes can sit in these benches. we need more courage, ladies and gentlemen, and only with standards that are at the forefront of europe will the european parliament gain the credibility it deserves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to european citizenship must be guaranteed by the proper implementation of the treaty of lisbon, which is primarily entrusted to the representatives of the citizens of the union elected in the territory of the member states, with the aim of establishing a genuine right to european citizenship as an essential prerogative for every citizen who recognizes the values of europe. the postponement of the vote on the report which was to amend the provisions on the election of representatives to the european parliament does not detract from the excellent work done by the rapporteur and the committee. it is nevertheless a matter of mature reflection, because if the provision of a transnational list serves the function of guaranteeing a unitary representativeness, there is no doubt that today more than ever the need to guarantee the recruitment of the political leadership class is really an expression of the individual territories. the united states of europe is moving above all from the common application of the values of solidarity and integration to the benefit of the whole community, in particular the outermost and island communities, which are more exposed than ever to the growing pressure of irregular immigration. i am convinced that the rapporteur and the committee will work hard to introduce those amendments which are consistent with the idea of embracing the sentimental vision of a europe really united also by the single electoral constituency, but modelled on the link between elected representation and territory. because one thing is certain, the citizen today really wants to be recognised in europe. the european union must recognize the size and needs of the territory, because that is the starting point for an organisational model that really meets the needs of the citizen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in life expectancy associated with ageing is a remarkable social achievement. european citizens are living longer with a more appropriate and better quality of life. however, it is precisely this success that is driving us to increase the challenge both in the workplace and in the social welfare field. there is no doubt, however, that the increase in average age has a number of effects on the social structure of each system. the european union is facing a considerable increase in the number of elderly people and a sharp decline in the population under 50. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good one.
in writing. − at a time of great concern, when commissioner andor tells us that by 2060 europe's pensioners will be twice as many as the working population, the european commission has strategically proclaimed 2012 as the european year for active ageing. the consequences of population ageing are reflected in social policies and public finances, but they also require improvements in the lives of older people, who must be able to live healthy and active lives. that is why 2012 should be seen as an opportunity to build a europe that is not afraid to age! it is important to rediscover the role of the elderly in society: they are an irreplaceable asset to the whole community that we cannot give up. a professor at the university of padua in my hometown - i agree with him - used to say that every time an elder leaves us, an entire archive disappears with him. in order to improve the integration of older people into active society and to encourage solidarity between generations so that old age is a good old age as such, the european year aims to raise public awareness, promote debate and the exchange of experience between the various countries of the union and facilitate the development of specific policies.
in writing. − today, europeans are living longer and happier lives: the ageing population is also one of the major challenges facing the european union. the european union will soon face a considerable increase in the proportion of older people and a sharp decline in the population under 50 years of age, with consequent pressure on public budgets, pension and health systems and social welfare systems for the elderly. we support the commission's decision to establish the european year of active ageing for 2012: this should encourage the efforts of member states, local and regional authorities, social partners and civil society to promote active ageing and to mobilise the potential of the population aged 50 and over. the european year should therefore be the right context in which to raise awareness, identify and implement good practices and, above all, encourage policy makers and stakeholders to promote active ageing at all levels. finally, we believe that to promote active ageing, solidarity and cooperation between generations must be increased and that the objectives to be achieved must be vitality, dignity and solidarity between the different age groups.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the ageing of the population affects the whole of europe and raises serious problems such as the future of pension systems, social services and welfare expenditure. for these reasons, it was considered to propose a european year on active ageing, which, following the guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy, would address the challenge of transforming, through an effective policy in favour of active ageing and through intergenerational solidarity, the problem into a resource that creates more opportunities for older people, keeping them healthy and offering them the possibility of still having an important social utility.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the european year of older people was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the increase in life expectancy associated with ageing is certainly a remarkable social achievement and a success of our time. european citizens are living longer and healthier lives than before. however, this success presents many challenges for european society, first and foremost from an employment and social security point of view. the general objective of the european year of ageing is to encourage the efforts made by member states to promote active ageing. active ageing involves the creation of better working opportunities and conditions in order to enable older workers to maintain their role in the labour market and to combat social exclusion by strengthening active participation in society and encouraging healthy ageing.
in writing. − from 2012, the population aged over 60 will increase by two million per year. it is therefore necessary to build a framework for action to raise awareness of the contribution that older people can make to society and to strengthen dialogue between generations. the european commission has decided to launch this initiative with the aim of creating new employment opportunities and better working conditions for the growing number of older people in europe, helping them to play an active role in society. the challenge for all stakeholders is to improve the chances of ageing, by intervening in areas as diverse as employment, healthcare, social services, adult education, volunteering, housing, information services or transport. active ageing policies will provide greater opportunities for older people to continue to contribute to the good of society. with the adoption of today's document, each member state will also have to inform the commission of its work programme, detailing the national activities planned in the context of the european year.
in writing. − 2012 will be the european year of active ageing. the commission's decision stems from the awareness of the continuing increase in the number of elderly people in the member states, a phenomenon linked to the reduced birth rate and the increase in life expectancy, also thanks to medical and scientific research. the european commitment is to consider the elderly not as a burden on society but as an opportunity, for example by allowing them to carry out voluntary activities at all levels. the european union, in compliance with the treaty which places all its citizens on an equal footing with the same rights, must commit itself to guaranteeing equal dignity and access to the elderly affected by disability. the text has some positive aspects, but the desire to include the candidate countries in the projects leads me to abstain, fearing a waste of money from european citizens.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the ageing population is a burden on european public budgets, especially on the pension systems of the individual member states: this is why we must work towards an effective active ageing policy which can offer older people the opportunity to continue working, to remain healthy for longer and to play an active role in society despite their not being young anymore. the proposal for a european year for active ageing can certainly make an important contribution by enabling older workers to maintain a role in the labour market, combating social exclusion and enhancing active participation in society through healthy ageing. for these reasons i have voted in favour of the text presented to the house today.
in writing. − i voted for this important resolution because the implementation of significant political and social reforms in the arab countries is now imperative. in syria the escalation of brutal repression against peaceful protesters has to stop. with this text we call on the syrian authorities and president bashar al-assad to put an end to the massacre of innocent people and to engage in an immediate and genuine political process in order to contribute to a democratic transition in the country. i also want to stress our serious concern about the increasingly bad humanitarian situation in yemen and in bahrain. the unconditional release of all peaceful demonstrators, including political activists, journalists and human rights defenders is a matter of priority. the national dialogue launched by king hamad in bahrain can produce effective results only if the participation of all political forces is granted. for these reasons we call on the political leaderships of these countries to immediately meet their commitments by opening a constructive political dialogue involving all democratic political parties, movements and civil society representation.
in writing. − in some arab countries there is a strong demand for political, economic and social reforms aimed at achieving genuine democracy, combating corruption and nepotism, ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, reducing social inequalities and creating better economic and social conditions. some governments, however, have reacted with violent repression of these popular demonstrations. we strongly condemn the violent repression of peaceful protesters, as freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental human right that should be guaranteed by the authorities. we express our solidarity with the peoples of these countries and firmly support their legitimate democratic aspirations. we also believe that the eu should use the many instruments at its disposal to discourage such actions, impose restrictive measures against these countries and the authorities responsible for the violent repression against the civilian population, and suspend all preparatory work on new bilateral cooperation programmes. we call on the international community to make further efforts to support and encourage the process of political reform in the countries of north africa and the middle east.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, yemen and bahrain because i believe that the european union must make its voice heard and put pressure on the regimes which, on the basis of broken promises and violent repression, are oppressing their peoples. parliament condemned the repression, questioned the legitimacy of the regimes in syria, yemen and bahrain and called for a peaceful settlement of the disputes in full respect of the human rights of the people in revolt. the hope is that political dialogue and recognition of the will of sovereign peoples will prevail over violence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for its innovative point of view and because it calls on all eu institutions to use the dialogues for the partnership agreement in a more coherent manner. i fully support the proposal for the establishment of a forum bringing together national parliaments and the european parliament to consider foreign policy issues, particularly on sensitive subjects such as human rights and democracy. the events unfolding in north africa and the middle east have proven the limitations of a focus on security and stability, which has failed to reduce poverty and social injustice. ‘security versus democracy’ is a false dilemma, as we all know there can be no human security within a society without a democratic and accountable government. i strongly believe that the fight against inequalities has to become an essential objective of the union’s external policy and that the european parliament must supervise these aspects more closely. for all these reasons, as underlined by this report, the council and commission must involve the european parliament in every stage of the negotiation, conclusion, application and suspension of international agreements with third countries.
in writing. - i particularly welcome this report on the eu's external policies in favour of democratisation, for which i voted in favour. in my work in parliament, i have devoted a great deal of effort to denouncing the violations of human rights committed, all too often with impunity, by the governments of states with which the eu has developed political and commercial partnerships. in my questions to the commission, i have consistently called for greater diligence on the part of the european institutions in applying the conditionality instruments to partner governments which are guilty of violating the rights of their citizens to political, religious and freedom of thought. the present report takes the same position and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union should not be afraid to implement the binding human rights clauses in international agreements in its relations with countries in the process of democratization. i call on the european union to make an effort to go in the direction also indicated by the rapporteur. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european union, together with the international community, can play an active role in supporting the process of democratic consolidation. for democratization to succeed, it is essential to address the social and economic development of the country concerned and to ensure the fulfilment of basic human rights, education, health and employment. european aid to support authoritarian states does not always guarantee democratic development; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the role that legitimate democratic political parties, genuine social movements and a free press can play in safeguarding public interests that help to control the transparency and accountability of governments and support women in their struggle for equal rights must also be fundamental. we believe that priority should be given to an in-depth dialogue on democratic norms and values with the actors involved in all processes of democratic consolidation, as the building and consolidation of democratic institutions can help to strengthen economic development and reduce poverty. we welcome the establishment of a directorate for democracy and human rights within the european external action service of the commission.
in writing. - i thank mr de keyser for wanting to develop some points of the report on migration flows caused by instability, recently adopted by the european parliament. in particular, the report stresses the importance of a comprehensive and coherent approach based on targeted strategies of development, human rights, good governance, social inclusion and the promotion of women's and minority rights in order to promote democracy. i share the need to build strong alliances with other actors on the world stage such as the african union and the arab league in order to promote democratic values more easily, and greater coordination with the usa.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because only democracies based on the rule of law can be a solid basis for balanced partnerships between third countries and the eu, respectful of the needs and interests of their peoples. only dialogue and consultation can strengthen democratization processes and elements of democratic governance, and all the union's institutions can do more in this regard. the eu's fundamental role as a soft power in the international system can only be consolidated if the protection of human rights becomes a real priority in its policies towards third countries.
in writing. − the numerous debates, also within the development committee, have highlighted the need for a paradigm shift in the eu's external policies, with a greater development of the political dimension and wider support from civil society. these issues, which are also reflected in the text presented by mr de keyser, represent a solid basis from which to build on the relations that the eu has established in favour of democratisation. i think it is a good choice to support the commission's decision to set up a european democracy fund to assist political actors in all the efforts needed to spread democracy in their countries. for these reasons i voted in favour of the text presented to the house today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the obstacles to political pluralism in the country. russia remains one of european union's most important partners in building strategic cooperation so it is important to condemn the great difficulty faced by the political parties in registering for the duma elections in december. the case of the people’s freedom party is an example. i want to stress that political pluralism represents a cornerstone of democracy and modern society and a source of political legitimacy. russia is committed to democracy via the osce and should aim to be a template of democracy for post-soviet society. for these reasons the obstacles which effectively constrain political competition in russia need to be overcome.
in writing. − despite the growing interdependence of economic and trade relations, eu-russia relations are making limited progress, due to misunderstandings and mistrust on political and economic issues that have prevented the parties from building genuine strategic cooperation. we believe that the russian authorities must do everything in their power to ensure that all candidates and parties are treated fairly and equitably in the parliamentary elections in december 2011. in the russian federation, freedom of expression, association and assembly are often at risk. the initiatives and activities of human rights defenders, independent civil society organisations, political opponents, independent media and ordinary citizens are also restricted or hindered. we therefore believe that the obstacles to the registration of new parties must be reduced, that all candidates and parties must be given equal opportunities during the election campaign and, above all, that access to the media must be guaranteed to all. we also believe that the future development of eu-russia relations must be linked to efforts to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. − the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and effectiveness with which each member state carries out controls at its external borders, and on the quality and speed with which information is exchanged through sis. in view of the recent pressures on the system due to the considerable movement of people from many north african countries, we agree to the possibility of temporarily reintroducing limited internal border controls 'in very exceptional circumstances'. we also believe that the situation cannot be handled at national level alone, but that it requires the mobilisation of all the member states at european union level and the use of all the operational and financial instruments at its disposal. we recognise that the free movement of people across european borders is a major success, which is in fact one of the main pillars of the european union, but we strongly recommend strengthening the governance of schengen. finally, we believe that it is necessary to oblige the member states to respect the rules deriving from this agreement and to protect the external borders effectively, while ensuring that fundamental rights are respected and that access to international protection for refugees is compatible and adequate.
in writing. − i supported this report because the position taken by the national parliaments during the eu speaker's conference on 4 and 5 april, which minimises the role of the european parliament, runs against the spirit of the lisbon treaty. the european parliament is a source of democratic legitimacy and political scrutiny for the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy. in accordance with article 9 of the lisbon treaty the european parliament and the national parliaments shall together determine the organisation and the promotion of effective and regular interparliamentary cooperation within the union. i clearly support the view that strengthened interparliamentary cooperation in the area of cfsp and csdp would reinforce the parliamentary influence on the political choices made by the eu and its states.
in writing. − in accordance with the treaty, the european parliament is periodically consulted on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy. its approval is an essential prerequisite for translating the eu's strategies into legislation and for concluding international agreements. it is a source of democratic legitimacy and exercises close democratic control. we believe that stronger interparliamentary cooperation in the field of cfsp/csdp would enhance parliamentary influence on the political choices made by the european union and its member states. we regret, however, that it has not been possible to reach agreement between the european parliament and the national parliaments on new forms of interparliamentary cooperation in foreign policy. this would have had enormous positive effects, it would have promoted the co-ownership of the right of consultation, with the dual aim of obtaining a better added value and of containing the organisational costs. we are ready to support all the efforts of the current polish presidency of the eu to reach an agreement in this respect as soon as possible.
in writing. - the adoption today by a very large majority of a resolution on the programme for the distribution of food to the poor in the union is certainly a strong and decisive signal. it is clear that the abrupt termination of an existing and functioning aid programme, without any prior warning or preparation, will have an impact on the most vulnerable eu citizens. i think it is more appropriate to develop a transitional solution for the last two years of the funding period in order to avoid an immediate and substantial drop in food aid following the reduction in funding from eur 500 million to eur 113 million and to ensure that people dependent on aid do not suffer from food poverty. the adequacy of the food aid programme will then be carefully assessed, taking into account the common agricultural policy, in the context of the new funding period 2014-2020.
in writing. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived in the european union. the european food aid programme for the indigent has been an essential instrument for providing aid to those in need since 1987. the programme is financed by the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) and involves voluntary participation by the member states. each year, on the basis of eurostat poverty data, the european commission sets a budget ceiling and compiles a list of products to be withdrawn from public stocks or purchased on the market, within the limits of the allocation. the proposed cut of 387 million for next year must not affect the 13 million people at risk of poverty who are currently receiving aid through the many charities and food banks in the eu. we must work together to find a system to ensure that this form of assistance is secure and constant for the future too, in the context of the reforms under way both in the social and agricultural sectors.
in writing. − the right to food is a fundamental human right and is realized when everyone, at any time, has physical and economic access to adequate, health-safe and nutritious food to meet their nutritional needs. in the eu 43 million citizens are at risk of poverty and, due to the economic and financial crisis, the number could increase. we support the initiative of the commission and the united nations to take a common stand against food insecurity and malnutrition in the world. we believe that the programme to support the most deprived in society should be maintained and that the commission should identify a legal basis for the existing food programme or for a new programme to help the poor. consideration should also be given to increasing the supply of products for the programme by allowing the purchase of products withdrawn from the market through non-intervention instruments such as export refunds or private storage. finally, we believe that the commission should ensure that, as part of the adjustment of the structural funds, individual vocational qualifications and diplomas are increasingly promoted, so that the poorest can participate in the social welfare system through their work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i value its aim to find a synergy between the various dimensions of mine action, with a special focus on humanitarian and development aspects. this report condemns the fact that, since the elimination of the eu’s dedicated budget line in 2007, the eu has not had an instrument able to respond coherently to mine action priorities. it is essential to restore a more dedicated approach by establishing a budget line managed by one lead directorate. the commission, moreover, should take into account the specific needs of individual countries and acknowledges that in some areas of the world the existence of landmines has become a structural issue. i would like to underline that efforts should be concentrated on sustaining the development of greater local capacity, meant as training for local personnel on a structured and professional basis, and use of military units, specifically trained for humanitarian demining in post conflict situations.
in writing. - the banning of antipersonnel mines is an unrelenting political, moral and human commitment. that is why i voted in favour of this report. moreover, since denouncing the human rights violations committed by authoritarian regimes in asia has always been a priority in my political work, i fully support the call in the report for the eu to put pressure on china and russia, which currently possess the largest stockpiles of landmines, to destroy them. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - the removal of anti-personnel landmines and other unexploded and abandoned ordnance is an act of humanity, given the suffering caused by these evil devices. the report envisages greater involvement of the countries receiving financial assistance. i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in some countries the presence of mines is a structural problem which still causes a large number of victims, mainly civilians. therefore, mine action should be a mandatory element of the national strategies of countries where anti-personnel mines and/or stockpiles of such mines are known to be predominantly present. despite advances in technology and detection techniques, fast, reliable and cost-effective solutions are still a matter of chance. we therefore believe that it is necessary to promote the universalisation and implementation of the anti-personnel mine ban treaty and the convention on cluster munitions, and to invite all states which have not yet done so to accede to them. we believe that the countries concerned should also be involved more closely and reminded of their responsibilities. synergies between the different dimensions of mine action, with particular regard to the humanitarian and development aspects, should be identified. we believe that funding is needed for research into the techniques and technologies of detection and census to ensure greater assistance to victims, hoping to achieve a world finally free from the danger they pose to life, resources and economic development.
in writing. - 156 states have signed the ottawa treaty on the prohibition of the use of landmines, but 37 other countries are not yet signatories. europe should therefore encourage these states to sign and ratify the convention. i share the view expressed by the rapporteur, mr van orden, who stresses the consequences of the use of mines, both from the humanitarian and economic point of view, since, in addition to the mourning and mutilation of the victims, mines effectively prevent the use of vast areas for human activities.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the report on progress in the fight against landmines was voted at the strasbourg plenary session. the report by mr van orden seeks to clarify the current situation regarding the production, use and casualties of antipersonnel mines and the efforts made to assist the states signatories to the ottawa treaty. it also examines the consistency of the actions undertaken and highlights the steps needed to improve the community approach to mine action by focusing community efforts on the most important aspects at a time of scarce resources. the committee also calls for the reintroduction of the budget line for mine action, which was abolished in 2007.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because, despite the progress made in the fight against landmines over the last ten years, efforts must be stepped up if this threat is to be eliminated once and for all. to date, 156 countries, including 25 in the eu, have signed and ratified the anti-personnel mine ban treaty, and there is much pressure to ensure that those who have not yet done so can also adopt it. another aspect on which much remains to be done is the destruction of stockpiles of such weapons, especially with regard to the arsenals of china and russia, which today boast stocks of 100 and 24.5 million anti-personnel mines respectively.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report as it deals with the issue of mine action, specifying how this term includes the investigation, removal of anti-personnel mines and explosive devices. the presence of mines is not only a humanitarian problem but also an economic one, since the land on which they are laid is uninhabitable. the report focuses on prevention and education, mainly aimed at children, and on how to avoid and reduce the risks posed by mine explosion. it is precisely the minors who, because of their young age, are less aware of the risks they run by playing or moving around in mined areas. it is not possible that every year thousands of innocent children are killed or maimed by unexploded bombs or mines scattered on the battlefields.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr van orden on the sad problem of anti-personnel mines. the report provides detailed data on the production, use and casualties of antipersonnel mines today and highlights the good work done in recent years in the fight against landmines. the call for the union to concentrate its efforts on the most important issues is particularly important, in my view, given the time of crisis and the scarcity of resources available.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i first of all take note of the proposal by president verhofstadt, which i consider to be a very reasonable one, and i am sure that if parliament wants to invite the president of the italian council under any circumstances that can be agreed, i believe that the italian government is doing the right thing, as president berlusconi's visit to the european institutions tomorrow will show, to give an account of what it is doing. i am surprised, i must admit, at the intimidating tone of mrs harms's question: i would like us to remember that silvio berlusconi, even if he is liked or disliked by some, is the president of the council of a country which is in europe and is in europe because of its history and its love of democracy! and i would like us to remember that it is not the green group that decides who is to meet the president of the european parliament! and it is not the green group that is giving the green light to democracy in this house! i would therefore ask mrs harms to be more measured and to remember that, as part of the visit that president berlusconi is making to the european institutions tomorrow, it is more than legitimate for him to ask to meet the president of the european parliament as well. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to the previous point, the visit of president berlusconi to this institution, because, as we have seen, it is already the subject of some jokes and some caricatures. i would just like to understand, mr president, in the light of your explanations that there is no official request for a meeting and that there is no official visit by the president of the council of the italian republic to the european parliament, whether you will meet him and what would be the status of such a meeting tomorrow, in the context of a visit which, i can assure you, is considered by much of the public opinion in our country as a kind of joke, taking into account that the president of the council was to appear tomorrow before the magistrates in naples. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is entirely legitimate for you to inform the house of the terms of this visit, so that we can put an end to this farce, because the attempt to attack the italian government at this moment in the european context has nothing to do with the subject of mr berlusconi's visit to the european institutions tomorrow. i would also like to point out that this is a problem which i do not understand why it is being raised, since the judges have already said that they will confirm to president berlusconi another date for that meeting.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats supports this request. there have been many things happening in the mediterranean this year, and what has happened in libya in recent weeks deserves our attention. we cannot wait for the vote until gaddafi is captured, if he is captured because this could take perhaps a short time, perhaps a long time it is clear that the libyan situation is an ongoing crisis. europe has not always spoken with one voice in recent months on libya, it has at times been weak, and i believe that with one vote, a formal statement by parliament, we can make a decisive contribution on our part.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a debate that is not stirring up much. the question of the doha negotiations is far from the minds of most citizens, the media and even many governments, which are now involved in much more stringent financial and economic priorities. it is not a debate that is particularly stimulated in brussels, but i do not think it is particularly stimulated in geneva either, at least as far as i have been able to ascertain this year, both in the parliamentary assembly of the wto and in its steering committee, of which i am a member. there is a sense of resignation that nothing is happening, that nothing should happen, that nothing can happen, that the challenges for a better regulated and more generous global market are too complicated, and that the very perimeters of the blocs that oppose each other are always moving and vague, between emerging countries that now feel like powers, between former first players that are in trouble, countries in perpetual transition, identity complexes. so the ship of the world trade organization, which is our own ship, does not know where to go to land, because, as seneca wrote, "no wind is favourable to a sailor who does not know which port to land". the commissioner, meanwhile, is blaming the poorest countries: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. their situation is paradoxical: they account for less than 1% of global trade, but they have 12% of the world's population, often forced to live without access to essential services. the forthcoming eighth wto ministerial conference is bound to adopt at least a package of measures to their benefit, but we are not sure about that, in fact, and we are asking you, commissioner, to assess this. while the impact on international trade balances would not be significant, it would be very useful for the poorest countries to obtain measures such as duty-free access quotas for their products, simplification of rules of origin, measures to correct market distortions for sectors such as cotton, technical assistance to internationalise their economy and, very important for us in the efta countries, the extension of the waiver trips beyond 2016 for pharmaceuticals and data protection. i understand your disappointment, mr commissioner, and ours too, and we stand by you in the commission's laudable efforts. if there is no prospect of meeting the needs of the poorest countries, let alone the state of the art for much more complex issues, such as the balance between emerging countries, the european union, the united states of america. if i am not mistaken, pascal lamy is inaugurating the construction of the new headquarters of the world trade organization in geneva today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that reducing the consumption of raw materials has many benefits, first and foremost from the environmental point of view: more recovery, less waste and less invasive nature. on the other hand, a serious industrial logic must work at a global level, not just at european level, so it is important that the intervention be taken to the highest international levels, because it must be a commitment of the whole world. finally, commissioner, i would ask you to press forward with this initiative by mr buzek, the president of parliament, to create a single energy market, because only then can we have certainty of supply and certainty of costs, both for businesses and for citizens. and here again, it would lead to a significant saving of raw materials and resources that are fundamental to our economy, to our industry, to our civilization.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of continued price volatility and the risk of possible shortages in the supply of raw materials, it is important that the european union proposes a strong and effective strategy to ensure a more sustainable use and better supply of these precious natural resources. i believe that in a global context of high economic uncertainty it is necessary to guarantee european enterprises an industrial policy which recognises the priority role of access to raw materials. europe too often falls victim to the financial speculations of exporting countries which, by holding a monopoly of essential elements for sectors such as aerospace, automotive, chemical or construction, cause extreme price volatility. some estimates suggest that demand for a number of raw materials critical to the eu could even triple by 2030, worsening the current situation. we must therefore act now, strengthen our trade strategy and propose concrete and feasible measures, such as the revival of extractive activity on european territory and recycling. i would like to stress that waste electrical and electronic equipment often contains a veritable treasure trove of metallic treasures which should be made accessible through recycling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we talk about a united europe when an italian citizen on holiday with his family in sweden has been arrested for slapping his son? how can we justify this arrest, which was followed by a trial with the ruling of the court of justice of the european union that italy cannot arrest a non-eu illegal alien by stating that illegal immigration is not in itself a criminal offence? why does the court of justice of the european union intervene in favour of illegal immigrants against an italian law and not against a swedish law which provides for the arrest of an italian father who is guilty of slapping his son in public? two different weights and measures, which show how far the european institutions are from the citizens.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other members of this parliament, on behalf of my colleague cecilia malmström, whom i represent here tonight, for their contribution to the preparation of this report. this is certainly a valuable contribution to the debate on counter-terrorism policy. following up on the commission's july 2010 summary communication, reports envisage a very ambitious programme to increase the level of knowledge on counter-terrorism policy efforts in europe. the commission supports measures to improve evaluation and hence policy-making. it is undeniable that imposing heavy economic burdens or unnecessary restrictions on fundamental rights and civil liberties would benefit exclusively those whom we are trying to counter. only measured policies can be legitimate, credible and well understood. they should be continuously monitored, evaluated and applied. however, a simple economic approach based on a cost-benefit analysis is not enough to appreciate the complexity of security issues, which are a key concern of citizens and constitute a fundamental public good of our societies. in addition, several of the proposed measures may prove to be inapplicable, as the scope of some of them is not clearly defined. it seems unrealistic, therefore, in the short term, to envisage a thorough and detailed evaluation of ten years of counter-terrorism policy in the european union, particularly in view of the multiplicity of policies and measures relating to the fight against terrorism itself or linked to it. moreover, the commission does not have sufficient resources at present to accomplish such a task. in addition, a list of all the counter-terrorism policies of the member states should provide a clearer picture. the union counter-terrorism coordinators could play an important role in this regard by contributing to this inventory and providing coordination work through this privileged link with member states' administrations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr antonio masip hidalgo, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the audit policy: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the following areas:
member of the commission. - madam president, i remember very well what i said at my hearing before the european parliament in january 2010. on that occasion, mrs flašíková, i made a commitment, in accordance with the g20 road map and the commitment of the heads of state and government of the european union, that no sector, no product, no financial market would be left out of intelligent regulation and effective supervision. since then, mrs flašíková, i have been working with all my teams, on a forced march, to prepare legislative texts to lay down rules or to give rules, to ensure transparency, accountability. i was going to say put morality back where it had disappeared, in the financial markets, so that these markets that we need work well in the service of the real economy. do not doubt, madam member, that for all the other sectors, beyond the audit we are talking about today, we do this work. we have already done some of this with you and you have many texts on your legislative table which are already under discussion and which will arrive by the end of the year. we are talking today about one of these sectors, about some of its actors, the external auditors, who, as we know, have not all played their part and have not all been able to sound the alarm in time in the financial crisis, which is not over. we have taken time to reflect, because in this field as in others i want us to work together, in a serious way, without improvisation. we have consulted and listened a great deal on this complex subject, and the european parliament has taken part in this consultation. i am very pleased - i say this in return - that parliament, thanks to the very high quality report by mr antonio masip hidalgo, very much shares my own idea of resolute action at european level to overcome the failures of the past. i thank you, mr masip hidalgo, for your personal commitment. i also welcome the work of several of your colleagues: mrs kay swinburne of the econ committee, who has just spoken, and other members who have contributed to this reflection, mr gauzès, mr bodu, mr lópez-istúriz and mrs berès. this report - and i say this quite frankly - is a very good basis for the proposals we are going to put forward in november. there are certainly differences of opinion on certain points and i am counting heavily - as mrs swinburne said earlier - on the determination and contribution of the two committees juri and econ to work together and rapidly in the coming months to develop the new regulatory tools we need. i will not respond to all the recommendations in mr masip hidalgo's report. i would simply like to mention three aspects of our proposals by telegram: the independence of the profession, the opening up of the audit market and the creation of a large, more integrated european market with strengthened supervision. first, the independence. our first concern, and yours, is the quality and credibility of the audit. we need to restore confidence in the accounts of the companies. this means that auditors must be independent of the entities they audit. but all too often we find that many companies keep the same audit firm for long periods, even decades, even a century - it has already happened. the result is less confidence in the accounts of the companies concerned, which is detrimental to the profession and to the audited companies. i do not therefore rule out proposing in november the mandatory rotation of the audit firm, a well-managed rotation, after a well-chosen period of time. another factor in the over-familiarity between auditors and auditors is the provision by auditors of too many services that are classified as ancillary or 'non-audit' services. for most networks, these services generate more revenue than the audit itself. in such circumstances, are we really sure that it is possible to judge objectively and to audit the company independently, when we are also advising it on its development strategy? mrs regner, you made that point very clearly earlier. i am therefore determined to limit, or even prohibit in some cases, non-audit services to audited clients. i believe in uniform rules for all of europe in this area. i wonder if we should not go so far as to propose pure audit firms, which would not be able to provide any other services than audit. this would also have the advantage of opening up these 'non-audit' markets to small and mediumsized enterprises, which otherwise have no chance against the dominance of the large firms, as we see today. we are still considering the practical feasibility of this option - i need a few weeks to work on it - and its proportionality in the light of the challenges of this proposal. secondly, the audit market must be more open. just a generation ago, this market was divided among eight major accounting firms. today it is concentrated and is even more concentrated as the audited companies are larger mr tavares, you have made that very clear. four firms control about 80% of the market for listed companies. this situation is even more concentrated in some countries, where the term "big four" has been replaced by "big three" or "big two". in germany, only two firms hold 90% of the mandates for the main stock index, the dax 30. in spain, it is even possible to speak of a "big one", since a single firm certifies the accounts of the largest banks and owns 58% of the largest listed companies. i have no ideology on this subject, nor on any other. i want to be determined and pragmatic. i am not in any way opposed to the big four, but i cannot accept that the market for auditing large companies is so dominated by only four large networks, when there are at least as many firms in europe that would like to enter this market. we want more players, more competition, more dynamism, especially in this market segment. there are several possible ways of stimulating this market, and we are working on them. one is the joint commission formula. i am pleased to note that your report, mr president, agrees with our analysis and that, if it is well balanced, the joint commission could provide a boost to the market. we are analysing the possible extension of this formula to europe. i am also thinking of compulsory, regular, transparent and fairer competition. in this context, i also want to see a ban on restrictive contractual clauses in favour of the 'big four'. i think that this current practice is unacceptable in a european market where competition must be free, fair and genuine. finally, with my colleague, the commissioner responsible for competition, joaquín almunia, we are following with interest the approaches of the national competition authorities and we will also be looking at what more can be done at european level to encourage the emergence of new international audit firms. the third and final area is the creation of a large european market and the strengthening of supervision, as mr paška has mentioned. paradoxically, this market, which is so concentrated in a few hands, is nevertheless very fragmented at the level of each of our countries. european integration is a solution to this. common european rules would promote the free movement of professionals and improve the quality of auditing and its supervision by the supervisory authorities. in order to make the audit market more european, i intend to advocate the idea of a european passport for auditors. we shall be inspired, in particular, by some of the solutions which have been found in the field of vocational qualifications. i do not think it is acceptable that an auditor should have to take exams in every country in which he wishes to work. i will also propose the automatic recognition of firms already approved in other states and the award of a european quality label which would demonstrate the ability of all firms concerned to audit larger companies. finally, there is another lever to help harmonize the rules applicable to auditing in the european union and to ensure professional mobility: this is - as you said, mrs flašíková - the introduction of international auditing standards, the isas (international standards on auditing). we are looking at how best to do this, and i agree with the parliament's report that it is necessary to provide for measures adapted to small and mediumsized enterprises. this is a daily concern of my colleague, antonio tajani. the last three very important points concern the supervision of audit firms and the transparency of their work. firstly, we want the audit authorities to cooperate more closely. i am glad that you share our view that this cooperation should take place within esma (european securities and markets authority esma). the times are not propitious for the creation of new structures at european level. let us use the existing ones, let us make sure they work well, and then the national supervisors - the auditors - will also be able to benefit from the experience of esma. secondly, i also want to strengthen the independence of the supervisory authorities at national level. they must be completely independent of the auditors and their professional organisations. thirdly, and finally - as you very well say in your report, mr masip hidalgo - we will propose that audit reports be more detailed, contain more information. during the audit, the auditor acquires a thorough knowledge of the company being audited, its activities, its organisation and its risks. he has privileged access to a lot of information. unfortunately, they are not always presented in a structured way in his report. this also applies to regulators, managers, audit committees and shareholders. this is also something that can be changed and improved, as mr masip hidalgo has suggested. i am very grateful to parliament for its interest and commitment in this matter. i wanted to bring you updated paragraph 13 of my reflections myself, a few weeks before the commission, informed and encouraged by your report, will present its legislative proposals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the fishing industry, in particular the fisheries sector, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the fisheries sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am only speaking in support of this report and i would like to stress two points in particular, one because it is part of the debate currently under way on the revision of the common fisheries policy and on the basic option, linked to the regionalization of a policy which, in recent years, has proved its weakness in the form of centralisation. this regionalisation phase is particularly applicable to the black sea. i believe that the elements contained in mrs iotova's report describe a particular situation, but one which is also repeated in the rest of europe, the situation in the adriatic, the tyrrhenian and the aegean is no different, that is to say that the interactions, especially between european fisheries and non-european fisheries, are often very damaging for european markets and for european consumers. the second point i would like to make very quickly is the call for a joint coastguard. there is no policy without an exercise of control. the controls are now carried out by different forces in europe, and i think it is time to see how one of the first european law enforcement agencies, the coastguard, can be managed jointly, with greater coordination and, why not, a single european body. i therefore fully support the contents of mrs iotova's report.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission shares the overall analysis of the situation in the iotova report: the black sea needs an improved and coordinated approach to regional fisheries management, scientific research and fisheries surveillance. the commission is currently developing a pillar for the black sea regional process under the integrated maritime policy in order to adapt the tools developed at eu level to the regional challenges and opportunities of the black sea basin. this strategy will be integrated into the european black sea strategy developed by the european external action service. we are pleased to see that the efforts to establish working groups with russia and turkey to discuss fisheries cooperation in more detail are welcomed by parliament. as regards the future of regional governance, we are open to exploring the possibility of a new multilateral fisheries management convention if that is the direction the dialogue with the region is taking. nevertheless, in line with parliament's conclusions, we have worked to strengthen the role of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean in the short term, in line with its existing responsibilities for the region. we share the report's conclusion that there is a need for a stable long-term system which will provide scientific advice on a regular basis. in the short term, the commission has acted to ensure a greater and up-to-date involvement of the gfcm scientific advisory committee, and a first meeting on the black sea is planned for january 2012. in the meantime, the commission has been working on the provision of regular scientific advice through the working group of its scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries. scientists from ukraine, turkey and the russian federation will participate in the meeting of this committee in october. the commission shares the report's view of the need for coordinated research and studies. it intends to contribute financially to the 'black sea-fish' project, which will be launched by the fao in the near future. turkey is also one of the most ardent supporters of this project. as regards the most appropriate management measures, i think that there is a need to look more closely at the advice on tacs and quotas and the management plans. we consider it important to emphasize that they should not be considered as mutually exclusive measures. cooperation is a key requirement in improving fisheries management in the black sea. the commission is ready to join forces and work with the european parliament and all stakeholders.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the report by vicky ford, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on tackling the security challenges of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector (2011/2072(ini)) (a7-0290/2011).
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, following the deepwater horizon accident in the gulf of mexico, the commission has presented an action plan to maintain and ensure a higher level of safety and environmental protection in offshore oil and gas operations. the european parliament has broadly supported the commission's objectives. the precise and well-researched report of parliament which we are discussing tonight confirms the complexity of offshore issues. i am particularly pleased to see that there are many similarities between your conclusions and those of the commission. i can assure you that the commission fully shares your concerns about the need to avoid destabilising the offshore sector through inappropriate regulation. we are therefore building on existing best practice in europe and are in contact with stakeholders to ensure that our future proposals are based on concrete and realistic elements. offshore oil and gas production has been and will be an important source of energy for europe, and is a major industrial structure whose safety standards are widely recognised as an example of excellence. but to remain at the highest level of global security, we must continue to make progress. experience shows that one should never rest on one's laurels. unfortunately, the recent oil spill in a north sea pipeline has again confirmed the need for action. there is no simple recipe for improving the safety of offshore operations. we believe that the responsibility for offshore oil and gas operations should remain with the industry and national administrations. however, our analysis also confirms that the european union has an important role to play in various sectors. we must ensure that best practice is extended to the whole of the european union, we must increase transparency in the industry and promote the sharing of experience. we also need to improve our contingency plans in the event of failure to prevent. we see the role that the european union can play in providing guidance and motivation in the ongoing work on such improvements. a lot of work has already been done since the five-point plan on offshore security. the commission is currently finalising this proposal on offshore safety, accompanied by the impact assessment, which is expected to be adopted around october. these proposals must be forward-looking and provide a comprehensive solution to the shortcomings and complexity of the present system and, above all, provide instruments for its continuous improvement. these efforts must be shared by all stakeholders and the commission warmly welcomes the positive response of the industry to some of its calls for progress. neither security nor oil spills know borders. this is why the commission is also involved in sharing european experience on offshore security with its international partners, notably within the g20. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate on how to improve the safety of our waters, and to stress that the commission looks forward to working closely with parliament on the legislative proposal coming this autumn.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by marina yannakoudakis, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women's entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises (2010/2275 ((ini)) (a7-0207/2011).
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the commission has proposed concrete measures to promote female entrepreneurship under the small business act for europe. the first is the creation of the european network of women entrepreneurship ambassadors in 2009. we've been able to mobilize entrepreneurs to campaign on the ground to encourage women of all ages to start their own businesses and become entrepreneurs. models are very important in motivating someone to start a new business. we now have 320 ambassadors in 22 european countries. the network was a success, already exceeding its targets in terms of events organised and public expectations in its first year of operation: more than 7 500 women potential entrepreneurs in ten countries. in addition, many ambassadors went beyond their task, which was to campaign only for women's entrepreneurship. they have actively contributed to supporting the creation of new businesses. their work has led to the creation of more than 110 new women-led enterprises in the six participating countries - we have no data on other countries. the commission is preparing to launch the european network of mentors for women entrepreneurs on 15 november. the action is aimed at women who have already started their own business. we will mobilize women entrepreneurs to act as mentors to new female entrepreneurs. these mentors will help women entrepreneurs by providing advice and support on start-ups, the management and development of their businesses. they will be selected at national level by the contractors participating in the project from among successful and well-known entrepreneurs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
entrepreneurs, of both sexes, are by definition business-oriented and committed to the success of their business. in the eu, despite women making up a significant share of the member states' labour force, there are still more female entrepreneurs than male entrepreneurs. at present, each member state of the union has adopted different approaches to supporting and promoting women in decision-making and on company boards. the different support systems that have developed over time in the member states are adapted to the cultural and individual needs of the country of origin. in response to this situation, the commission is running a voluntary group of female ambassadors in the member states who provide valuable technical support to women entrepreneurs. i share the rapporteur's view that there should be more support for this initiative and the sharing of best practices. the valuable contribution that working women can make to both the community and the economy of the european union is undeniable. many of them are able to juggle, not without difficulty, family commitments and their own career aspirations. i therefore encourage all initiatives in the member states to support and encourage projects for women entrepreneurs.
the next item is the report by mrs edit bauer. on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women approaching retirement age (2011/2091 ((ini)) (a7-0291/2011).
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the members of the european parliament, and in particular mrs bauer, for the preparation of this report. equal economic independence for women and men is a priority of our 2010-2015 gender equality strategy. we will only achieve the 75% employment target for women and men if we have national policies specifically aimed at increasing female employment rates and reducing gender gaps, particularly among women over 50. the commission notes how women approaching retirement age are in a special situation, as they may be helping their adult children to raise their families or looking after their elderly parents. a better reconciliation of work and private life is fundamental if we are to see an increase in the number of women in the labour force and an extension of their pension rights. the commission recognises the considerable role that paternity leave and leave for caring for a dependent relative, alongside other available instruments, play in pursuing these objectives. it has therefore commissioned studies to assess the costs and benefits of these two types of leave. the results are expected by the end of the year. on the basis of these two studies, the commission will decide whether to reserve the right to apply these measures in the future. the report rightly points out that women over 75 are more at risk of poverty than men in the same age group. the poverty of women may be the result of insufficient pension cover, but it is also often the result of the shortness of their working lives. it is therefore essential that women's actual career paths should be as long as those of men. one way of achieving this is to set the same retirement age for women and men. measures should be taken within the pension scheme to compensate for interruptions in professional activity. the current legislation guarantees the acquisition of pension rights during the period of maternity leave. our white paper on pensions is still being drawn up and the commission will consider ways of improving pension provision for women. next year we will have to discuss with the member states the adequacy of the pension system and we will publish a report on this together with the report on ageing. this report will focus on the situation of retired women who are victims of poverty and social exclusion. we will continue to work closely with stakeholders in the coming months to draft the white paper and look forward to your active involvement in the best evidence and input to support the measures we are considering. the european union is facing a significant ageing of its population due to low fertility rates, increasing life experience and the impending retirement of the baby-boom generation. the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations will be an important opportunity to break the narrative of the ageing population as a social and economic burden and to show the wealth that women and men in this age group have to offer.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the successful implementation of directive 2008/52 shows that mediation is a viable alternative to the traditional conflict-based approach between the parties, allowing for an amicable settlement of disputes and thus lightening the workload of the courts. this is confirmed by the various initiatives taken by some member states which, by financial incentives or legal provisions, facilitate the use of mediation wherever possible. in this context, i would like to draw attention to a number of aspects which, in my view, merit further reflection and study, first of all the question of costs: the example of the member states which have tackled this problem by encouraging the use of mediation economically is to be followed. i also believe that other possibilities need to be explored, including the use of awareness campaigns to promote the use and knowledge of alternative litigation compositions, especially by businesses. to achieve this objective, the cooperation of the legal system operators is also and above all necessary, and they must understand the added value of mediation as an element that is ancillary to their activity and not competitive. finally, in view of the commission's forthcoming communication on the implementation of the directive, and in particular the forthcoming legislative proposal on alternative dispute resolution, i would like to emphasise the complementarity of mediation with other reforms of union law, above all the approach to collective redress and contract law. mediation can be an excellent preliminary alternative to forms of collective redress and can make an important contribution to the future instrument on contract law by significantly reducing the use of litigation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. as the european parliament's mediator in cases of international child abduction, i particularly appreciated paragraph 14 of the motion for a resolution, which stresses that the mediation procedure makes the parties more open to considering each other's position and to working together to resolve the issues at issue, and this often has the advantage of preserving the relationship that the parties had before the dispute, which is particularly important in family matters involving children. mediation, wherever practicable, not only avoids lengthy court cases but also leads to an agreement agreed by the parties and i personally hope that such a practice can be extended as far as possible, including for family mediation. in europe, commissioner reding reminds us, there is a growing trend towards mixed marriages: each year, there are over 350 000 crossborder marriages and 170 000 divorces in the union, which is 20% of all divorces in the european union. after a marriage breaks up, sometimes the children become the object of contention. often the foster parent keeps the children without the consent of the other, or the noncustodial parent removes the child or refuses to return the child after a regular visit. in recent years, unfortunately, there has been a dramatic increase in cases of international parental child abduction: in many cases, however, the mediation procedure has allowed these children to have contact with both parents again, as an agreement between the parties reached through a mediation procedure can avoid unnecessary suffering of the child and allows the parents to deal with all family matters without incurring a long, costly and heartbreaking legal action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that what mrs reding said a moment ago is certainly correct and in the right direction: the fact that the failure to notify the measure to the non-compliant states is challenged by means of a possible infringement procedure suggests that in a single market such as the european one, the rules of justice must also be common. the compulsory nature of mediation is certainly an important objective, but at the same time the role of mediation costs must be recognised and there is no doubt that they can be attached to a case where mediation itself cannot be defined, and this is another particularly important issue. it is also important that mediators have skills and abilities and knowledge, just as it is equally clear that the low propensity towards the institution of mediation is likely to be due to inadequate information from the member states themselves. mediation means unclogging processes, especially civil ones, and it is equally important that this institution can be an important instrument with regard to the issue of minors, in which our interest is obviously particularly significant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that this result, that of frontex, which is an agency that best expresses the solidarity and sense of responsibility of the european people, represents more than any other a real achievement, a conquest of legal civilization. we needed a strengthened frontex, mrs malmström, we also need a new operational plan for lampedusa, for pantelleria, which continues to remain isolated while the inalienable rights that must be protected in relation to legal immigrants are still protected and guaranteed. at the same time, there is a new governance of schengen which provides for integrated border management which cannot fail to take due account of the fact that the security of citizens also depends on a good quality of life for them, which cannot always be guaranteed, as in some circumstances it still is not. i hope that the bilateral agreements, particularly with libya, on which mrs malmström has been working profitably, will finally be concluded, as will a series of bilateral agreements which will make it possible to deal with irregular migration in the best possible way and to protect legal migration. frontex will have to be verified, measured in its own efforts, more resources, but also a certification of the quality of the results obtained, a new operational plan; the european union must show solidarity with the countries whose immigration is excessive and disproportionate, and not just as it has been here on the surface, when europe has sometimes forgotten. with this indication i hope that both the presidency and the commission can work diligently with the european parliament and i thank mr busuttil for the important work he has done on this dossier.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the frontex regulation which we are voting on today is aimed at strengthening the european agency, giving it greater operational capacity and strengthening respect for the fundamental rights of refugees and asylum seekers, but above all the prohibition of refusal. the establishment of a fundamental rights officer on the frontex management board and the obligation of solidarity between member states go in this direction. the reform of frontex must enable us to deal with the real migratory urgencies in europe. just today, the financial times reminds us that of the 104 000 migrants who arrived illegally in the eu in 2010, about 85% came through greece, not italy or malta, and that is how it will unfortunately be in 2012. only if frontex fully respects the human rights of migrants and avoids the death toll in the mediterranean, which has become a graveyard where the lives and hopes of people fleeing poverty, oppression and despair are extinguished, can we say that we are on the right track. this must be the mission of frontex and the european parliament will have to monitor progress in this direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i would like to thank mr busuttil for the excellent work he has done on this report. finally, after long negotiations, the council reached a common position on the strengthening of frontex, a positive political signal at last after too long a period of national selfishness and operational uncertainty. the creation of a european border guard corps coordinated by the agency, better definition of the rules of engagement for joint patrolling and rescue of migrants at sea, strengthening of frontex's relations with the other agencies, are some of the most important actions envisaged by this agreement, but much remains to be done: we must first of all ensure that it is the european union, and no longer the individual coastal countries, that is responsible for signing bilateral agreements with the countries of origin for joint coastal patrols and the control of flows, already in the ports of departure. we must then take joint action with these countries and with the united nations refugee agency to set up offices on the ground which will actually assess whether or not they are entitled to asylum and therefore to enter our borders. there's still a lot to do, but we're on the right track.
the commissioner has given some answers, i do not know if she will speak, but there is a point tomorrow on corruption, there is a debate tomorrow afternoon, a wide debate, so perhaps it is more appropriate to go into this subject in depth at that meeting, which is obviously very important and is of great concern to both parliament and the commission. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the prerogatives of the european union's common area of freedom, security and justice is that it has eliminated internal frontiers in the schengen area. this has, however, made the external borders of the eu member states a matter of common concern and has made even more urgent the need for their integrated management through a coordinated approach. to this end, the adoption and application of common rules, increased cooperation between member states, better coordination of efforts and greater sharing of resources are essential. the fundamental aspect is that cooperation must be based on solidarity between member states, especially towards those border states which, because of their geographical or demographic situation, have to cope with large migratory flows, such as italy. we therefore welcome the adoption of this report because, after lengthy negotiations, we have been able to achieve excellent results and improvements in the functioning of the frontex agency, by providing more resources and instruments to make its work more effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the attention paid by parliament to the situation of women approaching retirement age: active ageing has to play a crucial role in union policies due to increasing life expectancy. today's vote is a first step. i agree with the call to member states to consider the role of women as carers. this role, through regulatory recognition, could create regulated forms of employment which would favour female employment over 50. as regards the pension system, i reiterate my call on the commission to introduce forms of protection to reduce the contribution gap between men and women, who, often because of work to care for and assist their family members, have had to interrupt their working careers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any initiative which is aimed at promoting our real economy at a time of such a serious crisis as this is to be welcomed with great enthusiasm, especially when the aim is to increase the competitiveness of our enterprises on the world market. i thank the rapporteur, mr jadot, and the other shadow rapporteurs for having given us a report which selects investment support and makes it more transparent without adding to the already heavy bureaucratic burden on smes. the hope is that this agreement which we are receiving today and which was concluded in the framework of the oecd will be signed by other countries which are our trading partners, so that a real level playing field for operators is safeguarded and so that europe does not suffer from competitive disadvantages in a sector which accounts for 10% of world trade and which is therefore crucial for the overall growth of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about half of the industrial projects with high levels of carbon dioxide emissions in developing countries receive some form of support from export credit agencies. these are usually projects with high environmental and social risks. it is also difficult, if not impossible, to assess the extent of this phenomenon, since the agencies themselves have neither data nor rules on the transparency of information. this situation is in open contradiction with our environmental policy. i wonder if it would not be appropriate to assess the extent of this phenomenon in more detail. the obligation to assess risk is a first step forward, but even clearer rules are needed to direct these forms of financial support towards the carbon reduction target we have set ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the key to a high-level approach to the subject and not just to domestic productive contingencies should be to link trade policies to development policies, in other words, human rights clauses, labour standards and corporate social responsibility should be part of all agreements. the key to europe's success in this respect are innovation policies to secure supplies through a wide range of measures, the identification and extraction of raw materials in europe, investment in new technologies to recycle and reuse materials, and fair and responsible agreements with suppliers outside the eu. the framework programme is also one of the vehicles for the revival of innovation policies, an important sector which is crucial for development and also for work and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr bütikofer, the eu needs a strong industrial base for its growth, and this cannot be achieved without adequate supplies of raw materials. once again, the lack of a common vocation on the international stage is a penalty. how can we have the illusion that we are pursuing our interests vis-à-vis countries like china without a cohesive european union? i am convinced that european diplomacy in the field of raw materials is the appropriate response to the supply crisis. i hope that the proposals adopted will be followed up and that the role of the european external action service will be progressively strengthened in the near future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a global market characterized by high price volatility and the increasing impact of finance on markets, i cannot but welcome the creation of a european strategic framework for raw materials. i am pleased to note that today's vote has identified the need for greater transparency in financial markets as regards raw materials, while at the same time giving strong attention to the supply difficulties of small and mediumsized enterprises and to measures in this area which can promote their competitiveness. i think it is of fundamental importance that we have emphasized the obligation to include explicit clauses for the protection of human rights and corporate social responsibility in trade agreements with countries outside the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the vote in favour of this report because it has the characteristics to propose the same situation as the black sea in other european areas. it is an important innovation to regulate fishing in an area where only two of the six coastal countries are european, and it is very similar to what happens, for example, in the adriatic, where there are completely different rules for different countries, from the community, from outside the community and from within the community. the second reason is that i think the creation of the european coast guard should be emphasized and taken seriously as an important innovation. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the fishermen in the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has certainly led to an improvement in the safety and inspection of offshore oil and gas activities, in order to avoid a repetition of accidents such as the one that occurred in 2010 on the gulf of mexico oil platform, which claimed the lives of 11 people and caused serious environmental damage. i welcome the proposal to coordinate civil protection structures rather than create supranational structures. i would like to see more cooperation between the control bodies in order to establish common and independent standards at european level. i welcome the proposal to create a forum of mediterranean authorities for the control of offshore activities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disaster in the gulf of mexico more than a year ago prompted the european commission to consider legislation relating to offshore oil platforms. the european parliament, in its report, has also expressed its position on this matter by approving a text which requires adequate technical and financial capacity from operators in the sector and aims to set high safety standards, such as to ensure the leading role of the european union in promoting the safety of offshore activities. the new measures required of the commission in this field will have to focus on international coordination and a realistic approach combining all the existing excellence in the field at the procedural level and avoiding the creation of new bodies or additional bureaucracy which would risk distorting the achievement of concrete final objectives. in particular, the report calls for the improvement of communication and information and knowledge sharing mechanisms, as well as the enhancement and expansion of the role and powers of the european maritime safety agency. it is for all these reasons that i regard as positive the result achieved by the negotiation of this text, which we have expressed our support for.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to recognize the capacity of women in the workplace and to provide them with special assistance through valid, concrete instruments which encourage their participation and ensure that they can work on equal terms in an employment environment in which there is no room for gender discrimination. we supported this report because it recognises the value of women entrepreneurs in small and mediumsized enterprises, highlights the various problems they face and highlights the contribution that women workers can make both to communities and to the economy of the european union. each member state has already adopted different approaches to supporting and promoting women in decision-making and on boards. the problems facing women vary from country to country. some states provide more support than others, and cultural differences in the role of women also affect the possibilities of starting a business.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a long-term european migration policy requires an integrated management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, precisely to deal with the continuing threats and pressures on our borders from cross-border crime. the future of the european agency frontex requires a high level of mutual trust and cooperation between the member states, but above all the availability of the equipment and tools necessary to carry out its tasks, in particular in emergency situations, in a timely and efficient manner, in full respect of the provisions on fundamental rights. i therefore support the proposal to amend the 2004 frontex regulation, because the security and management of our external borders must not remain an ambition, but must be achieved in a body that carries out its tasks in close cooperation with other european agencies, in particular europol and eurojust, with the european asylum support office and the fundamental rights agency. however, i believe that the evaluations that will be made of the operation of frontex should in no way prejudice the current smooth functioning of schengen.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of amending the council regulation because i believe that a european agency should be set up to manage operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union. recent historical events and the migratory flows that have followed have increasingly highlighted this need. after many negotiations with the council and six trilogues, coreper finally accepted the european parliament's latest request concerning the principle of necessity and proportionality. the report makes a considerable improvement on the future regulation and four key results have been achieved: (1) strengthening the effectiveness of the agency, (2) enhancing the visibility of the agency by establishing 'european border guards' and their clearly identifiable designation; (3) a package of measures related to the monitoring and protection of fundamental human rights and (4) democratic control of the agency by the european parliament. i congratulate mr busuttil on the success of the report and hope that this will lead to a real legitimacy of the agency, so that we have more and more representative community institutions.
in writing. − i strongly support this report as europe can no longer look powerless in emergency situations because it is unable to muster resources or pool assets. frontex must be ready to assist member states in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at external borders, especially at external union borders which are vulnerable or require concerted action. thanks to the amendments tabled by my group on this text, the operational capacities of the agency will be strengthened. we also obtained that rescue at sea be added to the tasks of frontex. this report is also important because it clearly underlines that frontex has the obligation to respect fundamental rights, respect international conventions and assure international protection, in particular the principle of non-refoulement.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote was strongly against this report because it contains provisions designed to weaken frontex and render it incapable of performing the tasks for which it was set up. the document gives priority to the principle of non-refoulement and includes clauses prohibiting the return of illegal immigrants. in addition, the document replaces the term "clandestine" with the term "irregular". this change has no logical or legal justification and seems to be aimed at intentionally promoting the legal status of illegal immigrants in order to prevent their return and to facilitate their regularisation. the lega nord believes that frontex should not support illegal activities such as illegal immigration, but should instead block them, and that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the busuttil report because i agree with the need to give frontex a new mandate and to give it more resources and instruments to make it more effective. the frontex agency plays a key role in the coordination of the external borders. in the light of recent and increasingly volatile and evolving migratory flows, integrated management ensuring a high and uniform level of control and surveillance, as well as common rules and increased cooperation between member states, is proving to be a prerequisite for the good functioning of the agency. i agree with what the rapporteur has said, namely that frontex should be ready to assist member states in specific circumstances, with particular attention to those states facing specific and disproportionate burdens on their national asylum systems. to this end, close coordination with other european agencies such as europol and eurojust in the fight against crossborder crime is essential.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr busuttil has presented us with a report which we can call a success for the european parliament. we have voted today on a report which is the result of long negotiations, after which the council has accepted parliament's requests. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it will greatly improve the future management regulation for frontex. the agency was established in 2004, but five years after its start, improvements are needed in its operation. i believe that this report has achieved parliament's four main objectives: first, the strengthening of the agency's effectiveness; secondly, the increased visibility of the agency by establishing the so-called 'european border guards' and their clearly identifiable designation; thirdly, the definition of a package of measures relating to the monitoring and protection of fundamental human rights; finally, the democratic control of the agency by the european parliament.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr busuttil on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, better known as frontex. the regulation thus adopted makes it possible to protect better those countries which are particularly subject to specific and disproportionate pressures.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to abstain on the evaluation of this report. it is clear that this text is intended to try to remedy the flagrant failure of frontex and some of the measures proposed are in the right direction. i wonder, however, how these measures can be implemented when the member states and the council representing them continue to oppose, in fact, a common management of european borders. the council's proposed cuts in the next budget, which we will have to approve, are further proof of this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the external border fund are reduced by 15 million, the return fund by 10 million and the frontex programme by 10 million. i hope therefore that parliament will be less hypocritical than the council and will make its case forcefully, even when it comes to providing frontex with the necessary resources.
in writing. - the crisis of immigrants from the revolting arab maghreb has shown how necessary it is for the european mediterranean countries to have a european agency like frontex which can work to solve problems at the borders. my vote in favour of amending the regulation is to allow frontex to be strengthened as an agency ready to intervene in aid of a member state which requests it for urgent problems. frontex has already shown that with more autonomy and more funding it can really play a decisive role in resolving disputes that would otherwise go too far if dealt with exclusively by european policy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, especially since the abolition of internal borders in the european union, the importance of coordinated and integrated management of external borders has increased. the recent dramatic disembarkations in lampedusa show that it is no longer possible to wait: patrolling operations shall ensure a high and uniform level of control and surveillance. this requires the adoption and application of common rules and also greater cooperation between member states to secure their external borders. it is in the light of this need for greater coordination and solidarity that frontex is called upon to play an increasingly important role, by giving the agency a new mandate and providing it with more resources and tools to make it increasingly effective.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the impact assessment carried out in recent years has made it clear to the european commission that the instruments and functions assigned to frontex are insufficient to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. the new regulation will enable frontex to coordinate better with the member states by providing equipment and personnel to those taking part in joint operations, and the agency will also be able to use border guards using staff made available by the member states. it is clear that if there were no conflicting ideological political positions, our vote could have been in favour: the principle of non-refoulement was introduced, a fundamental rights office was set up and the term 'illegal' was replaced by 'irregular'. at this point, we are voting against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the frontex regulation was necessary in the face of the ever-increasing increase in illegal immigration within the borders of the european union. in this context, the establishment of european border guard teams is helping some member states in particular to cope with sudden and massive migratory flows, such as those which have occurred since the arab uprisings. at the same time, the procedures for the most vulnerable groups, first and foremost unaccompanied minors, represent the other side of the measure, in which respect for the law and solidarity are thus intertwined to guarantee the rights of individuals and at the same time the security of the member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic landscape has changed radically in recent years: the wto and numerous multilateral and bilateral initiatives have led to a real expansion of world trade. since the 1990s, a growing number of developing and emerging countries have integrated into world trade and become the locomotives of the world economy. in the eu, 18% of jobs depend on foreign trade and in 2015, 90% of world economic growth is forecast to be generated outside the union. therefore, in my view, it is of paramount importance to develop and implement a long-term strategy for external trade which takes account of the eu's evolving role in the world economy. the population growth in the union is also a reversal of trend, while the population of the developing countries continues to increase rapidly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the need to develop forecasts which take account of the current realities of the world economy and the present situation in the european union, as well as the likely future scenarios. on this basis, a long-term strategy could be developed to meet the needs of european citizens.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject in question, the export of dual-use goods, is a very sensitive one and needs to be subjected to some democratic control. it is right to amend the regulations governing community legislative activity in this field so as to involve the european parliament in the decision-making process and to allow - unlike at present - the representatives of the citizens of the european nations to be adequately informed of updates to the list of dual-use items. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, annex i to the regulation has so far been incorporated into eu legislation almost automatically, without the involvement of the european parliament or the national parliaments of the european union. eu coordination and representation in international control regimes has been characterised by a prominent role for the main member states, a closed-door decision-making and policy process, and the conceptual and intergovernmental framework of the cfsp. all eu member states are members of the nsg and the ag, but cyprus is not a member of the wa and cyprus, estonia, latvia, lithuania, malta, slovenia, slovakia and romania are not members of the mtcr. in addition, the european commission is a founding member of the ag, an observer of the nsg, but has no role in the wa and the mtcr. as a result, no eu institution can currently ensure the consistency of the union's policy towards and within international control regimes. the european parliament has received a proposal from the commission, subject to amendments. it should be noted, however, that parliament's margin of manoeuvre is rather limited.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current european system of export controls for dual-use goods makes the export of such technologies subject to authorization, a particularly sensitive issue, especially as regards possible applications in the field of war. in this area, it is essential to promote the transparency of national export control regimes. in the complex process of reforming these mechanisms, parliament, as a co-legislating body, does not have many instruments of amendment at its disposal at present. the eu's coordination and role within international control regimes should therefore be improved, ensuring that it speaks with one voice and that parliament firmly supports all matters falling within the eu's exclusive competence.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report because the control of dual-use items is essential for the purposes of arms non-proliferation and is carried out through preventive measures such as the imposition of export authorization and customs registration procedures. given the eu's new international trade powers following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, this could be a significant step towards regulating the export market for dual-use goods in a more transparent and democratic way.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to repeal, by means of a regulation, community legislation which has become obsolete responds to the need for legislative simplification and the reduction of acts which have no reason to persist in the already rich body of community legislation. since the effects of the regulations which we are about to repeal on other legislative texts are preserved and the effects of each of these acts on community legislation are thus preserved in time, it is appropriate and sensible to proceed with the abolition of regulations which now have only a formal and, so to speak, 'numerical' value. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, simplification for better legislation is an imperative which also applies to the agricultural sector, where the volume of legislation is very high. mr de castro's resolution aims to repeal certain legal acts which have become obsolete because they have exhausted their effectiveness, although technically they are still in force. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because the more than 20 regulations covering different agricultural sectors - from milk to fruit and vegetables and from tobacco to flowers - have become obsolete as successive regulations have been produced to meet the needs of an ever-evolving agriculture in the europe of 27. i think this is an effective step towards simplifying procedures by eliminating the superfluous of the past in order to better build a necessary, simplified and effective system for european agriculture.
in writing. − the continuous evolution of regulatory requirements for european agriculture has made it necessary to lighten existing legislation in this field, given the presence of many obsolete acts still in force. we are talking about 25 regulations covering different agricultural sectors which need to be updated or repealed because they have already been replaced by new rules which meet current needs. following the principle of simplification adopted by the eu, i believe that it is necessary to repeal these outdated rules which no longer have any real effect and are only a legal burden on agricultural markets.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution on the repeal of certain legal acts which have become obsolete concerns a number of acts which have been adopted over the last decades and have now exhausted their effects, but are still technically in force. those acts have become obsolete because they were temporary in nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. several measures linked to the accession of new member states provided for transitional measures for the period immediately following accession and have now become obsolete. i fully agree with the work done by the honourable member and i welcome it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the proposal to repeal these legal acts because it is dictated by the political commitment of the european union to improve the quality of legislative activity and to simplify existing legislation. only in this way can a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses be created.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal to repeal obsolete legislation on international trade responds to the need for clarification and simplification of legislation. these are acts which have now lost all real legal effect, being either acts of a provisional nature which have already outlived their temporal scope of application, or acts which have been superseded by different disciplines which have subsequently arisen, or even acts governing agreements with third countries which have meanwhile become part of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal to repeal these acts, so that the process of simplifying and clarifying the rules of the vast body of community legislation can continue and the european regulatory environment can respond more and more to the criterion of clarity.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the public regulated service (prs) offered by the european galileo satellite navigation programme is reserved for government-authorised users only for sensitive applications such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security, emergency services, which require a high degree of precision and reliability. the report in question regulates one of the first services that galileo could start providing to the member states from 2014: a system that will allow the protection of critical infrastructures that depend on satellite navigation, ensuring a high level of service continuity. i agree with the rapporteur that the mechanism proposed to ensure such security strikes the necessary balance between, on the one hand, the control of compliance with the rules at eu level and, on the other, the decentralisation of the monitoring function currently exercised by the member states. while it is temporarily necessary to limit the manufacture of prs receivers to the union territory, it is necessary to take into account the possibility that in the future the production may be extended to other countries. i therefore believe that it would be appropriate to conclude security agreements now which also regulate the conditions of such authorization, in order to ensure compliance with the common minimum standards.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the glante report on access to the regulated public service provided by the global satellite navigation system under the galileo programme because i welcome the initiative to establish a legal framework for this matter. the regulated public service, reserved for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications requiring a high degree of accuracy and reliability, such as infrastructure, transport, internal and external security, emergency services, needs clear rules for the management and control of the system, as well as for the protection of sensitive data and information security. the appointment of national authorities to monitor and enforce these rules is a key step in this context. i also appreciate the commission's willingness to work with the member states to define a common regulatory basis for the framework, thus safeguarding the necessary uniformity and consistency at european level while taking due account of the specificities and characteristics of each state.
in writing. - galileo is one of the jewels of the european industrial and research system. i voted in favour of this report because, after a difficult negotiation with the council, the rapporteur has succeeded in achieving results which are meaningful for the citizens of the european union. i am referring in particular to respect for privacy and data protection. at the same time, i am referring to the desire to sell this technology, in its marketable aspects, in order to give proper value to the great work that researchers, technicians and specialists are carrying out every day in a europe which is increasingly in need of excellence in new technologies. for the uses mentioned in this proposal, i also particularly appreciated the emphasis the rapporteur has managed to put on safety. the importance of this aspect is enormous, and the european union cannot afford to make any missteps if it is to continue on the road to high technological quality.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on access to the new services offered by the galileo programme is an important element in the continuity of the service and the security of the data provided by the satellite navigation system. it is necessary to establish common criteria governing the use, management and control of data provided by the galileo programme. space policy must be considered a priority by the community institutions, as it can make a decisive contribution to the european union's assertion as a leader in foreign and industrial policy. to further highlight the importance of this sector, it is sufficient to recall a few facts: 5.5 billion euros in annual turnover, 2,000 companies and some 30,000 jobs. i therefore consider funding for space programmes such as galileo to be essential, but i would like to stress here, too, my concern at the exclusion of the gmes programme from the community budget for 2014-2020.
in writing. the european parliament's vote on the glante report paves the way for the development of a european satellite navigation system. the creation of a prs system, i.e. a highly secure encrypted network for government-authorised operators (police, military) within the galileo programme, will provide a service of great value to european citizens, helping to ensure an immediate response by law enforcement authorities in the face of crisis or emergency situations. the galileo programme, in addition to providing benefits for citizens, also represents an opportunity for european industry in the new technologies market, contributing to the creation of skilled jobs in the field of satellite navigation. parliament is now awaiting the council's position on the availability and operation of the prs service from 2014.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr glante's report on the prs, the public regulated satellite navigation service, because i believe that a technological system to support logistics and protect infrastructure for businesses and citizens can be very important. it is equally important for security reasons to regulate access to them in a complete and detailed manner. the text also regulates the first public service that galileo will provide to the states in the coming years.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european satellite navigation programme galileo will be able to offer a number of services, including the very important regulated public service. this will be reserved only for users authorised by governments and exclusively for sensitive applications such as transport, internal security and emergency services, which require a high degree of accuracy and reliability. the vote aims to establish a detailed legal framework for access to the programme and for the management and control of users. this is essential to ensure system security and the protection of information, which is often considered politically and strategically sensitive and therefore requires a very high level of security.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report deals with the rules for access to the regulated public service reserved for users authorized by governments for sensitive applications such as security, emergency, etc. the report calls for the definition of the conditions for access to the service offered by the galileo satellite navigation system under the control of the eu institutions. particular attention shall be paid to ensuring the security of the system and the protection of information. the system will be operational in 2014 and it is therefore important that member states have the responsible authority in place to effectively manage and control any entity authorised to manufacture, own or use a prs receiver.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr glante's text defining the rules for access to the new services offered by the global satellite navigation system, considering it particularly important to regulate one of the services that galileo could offer to the member states from 2014, namely the continuity of the service even in severe crisis situations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the moreira report because i agree with the need to confirm the 2006 international agreement on tropical wood, which has a ten-year duration but is subject to revision every five years. the agreement reached between producers and consumers has had the merit of fostering the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber from sustainably managed and legally harvested forests and of offering effective management, international cooperation and policy-making realities concerning the various relevant aspects of the world timber economy. our attention must now be focused on the sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of degraded forest areas, involving the people and the states also through awareness and education campaigns. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the introduction of a new system of reference for the calculation of the annual amount of the aid. the agreement also aims to ensure a credible licensing system, introduces an action plan for the enforcement of forestry legislation and lays down measures to create multilateral partnerships.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to tackle the increasingly serious problem of illegal logging, the european union introduced an action plan in 2003 for the enforcement of the rules to combat illegal logging. this action plan is the cornerstone of the action plan negotiated by the eu with individual timber exporting countries. signatory countries committed to promote better governance and traceability mechanisms along the entire supply chain. these measures mean that europe is banning the marketing of illegal timber and any products.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it is important to implement trade cooperation between the european union and the swiss confederation in the field of free trade in agricultural products, but above all to ensure the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and geographical indications. these protections not only allow mutual recognition of quality products between the two countries, to the benefit of agriculture, but also protect consumers against possible counterfeiting offences and prevent the use of these names by unfair competitors. i therefore hope that this agricultural partnership can continue along the path of gradually improving the conditions and arrangements for these bilateral trade relations, in order to safeguard the value of sustainable rural development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i come from a region bordering switzerland and am well aware of the considerable trade relations between the eu and the swiss confederation. i have been doing a lot of work lately on how integrated this country is in the european economy, and how it interacts with its neighbours. i have had a firsthand experience of a reality which, although it sometimes tends to speculate on the differences it proudly underlines, is generally european in its values and approach to the market. this decision by the council is therefore the right recognition of an integration which has in fact been taking place for centuries. the problem i have found is that some people feel that freedom of movement for workers is a problem, and i am glad that the eu is doing its part to facilitate trade and therefore responding with positive signals showing the will to pursue the four freedoms.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr glattfelder's report because i believe it is important to continue to protect european agri-food quality by concluding bilateral agreements. to date, according to data from the european commission's trade dg, the eu has concluded as many as 200 bilateral agreements, a sign of the will to strengthen european trade policy in many areas of the world. in the case of agri-foodstuffs, the eu-switzerland agreement and the measures to protect designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural and food products are particularly important.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is of the utmost importance that the european union should work constantly with the swiss authorities to improve the conditions and procedures for these bilateral trade relations. the aim is to ensure the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and geographical indications, in order to maintain the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products and to promote the quality of the food chain.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the liberalisation of agricultural trade granted since 1992 under the agreement on the european economic area (eea) allows norway to benefit from the eu's internal market by dismantling all kinds of obstacles to agricultural trade every two years. at present, some 60% of trade in agricultural products between the european union and norway is completely free from any kind of obstacle and mutually beneficial tariff reductions will soon be introduced for the most sensitive products as well. the text of the recommendation concerning the conclusion of the agreement on the granting of additional trade preferences between the agricultural products of the two countries concerned, which was voted on today, could therefore only find my full support, especially in a medium- and long-term perspective of agricultural production in line with the conditions of the cap reforms after 2013.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (then the european community) and the kingdom of norway, on the basis of article 19 of the agreement on the european economic area (eea), entered into force in july 2003. to this end, the parties shall review the situation of the above-mentioned trade every two years and decide, within the framework of the agreement and on a bilateral or multilateral, reciprocal and mutually beneficial preferential basis, on any further dismantling of any type of obstacles to trade in the agricultural sector. this proposal, which provides for further liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, is the result of bilateral negotiations on this subject, which took place from march 2008 to january 2010. the new preferences will consist of further full liberalisation for certain sensitive products, thus allowing for the full liberalisation of around 60% of such trade between the kingdom of norway and the european union. for the most sensitive products, such as meat, dairy products, fruit, vegetables and ornamental plants, tariff quotas or tariff reductions have been agreed. specific provisions are laid down for the administration of tariff quotas for cheeses.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this agreement because it takes account of the importance of certain specific products in agricultural production in both the eu and norway and therefore provides for appropriate provisions on tariff quotas and tariff reductions. these elements must also be considered particularly important in a medium- and long-term perspective of agricultural production, as suggested by the assumptions on which the far-reaching reforms of the cap after 2013 will be based.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable member's report is aimed at extending to the small principality of liechtenstein the agreements already in force with the swiss confederation. the unanimous vote of the commission and the fact that there are no criticisms of the agreement mean that i shall be voting in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by adding a new annex (annex 12) to the agriculture agreement, the european union and switzerland are now seeking to ensure the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and geographical indications, in order to maintain the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products, while promoting the quality of the food chain. in particular, by virtue of the additional agreement, liechtenstein products are considered to originate in switzerland. accordingly, the additional agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein should also be amended in order to extend the protection of geographical indications to liechtenstein. two names included in the swiss geographical indications will also be extended to the territory of liechtenstein. the new annex 12 to the agriculture agreement will improve bilateral trade in agricultural products between the eu and switzerland. the amendment to the additional agreement is therefore also a positive and necessary step.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the negotiation of the text, the eu obtained additional guarantees in the opposition procedure. unlike other ppas, it is not sufficient for a party to simply challenge a measure to avoid its implementation: in this case the opposition procedure is much more restricted, since the causes which can lead to a challenge are limited and - what is even more important - the state which lodges the opposition is still under an obligation to adopt alternative measures having equivalent effect. finally, the text seems to grant access for vessels of one contracting party to the ports of another state party to the convention, which, at least for the eu pelagic fleet, opens access to chilean ports. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat illegal fishing in the baltic sea, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat illegal fishing in the baltic sea.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it lays the foundations for a good cooperation which can address the shortcomings in the management and conservation of non-highly migratory species and the protection of biodiversity on the high seas in the south pacific. although the number of european union vessels fishing in the region is small, cooperation with other stakeholders in the management and conservation of the area must continue.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the recommendation by mrs țicău on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the eu-brazil agreement on civil aviation security. although the agreement was signed on 14 july 2010, the part concerning the removal by the union of technical barriers to trade in goods has not yet been applied. a council decision is therefore necessary. i believe that both european and brazilian companies will have the opportunity to benefit greatly from the application of the rules outlined in the agreement, which will allow for more streamlined and faster procedures for the mutual recognition of certificates and for the approval of products. the benefits in the aviation sector will be felt both internationally and nationally.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the new exclusive powers which the european union has acquired in the field of foreign policy are the relations governing air transport agreements. i am voting in favour of the agreement because it is a step in the right direction in terms of simplifying and reducing bureaucracy. it will also avoid duplication of work between eu and non-eu countries.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the recommendation by mrs ticau on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and brazil on civil aviation safety because the approval of this agreement is in line with all the other international agreements that the eu is pursuing to improve and define the safety of its citizens in air transport. air traffic management is constantly evolving and, given the number of people travelling outside the eu, i think it is appropriate to regulate all kinds of situations to ensure the highest possible level of safety.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objectives of the agreement are to facilitate trade in goods and services covered by the agreement, to limit as far as possible the duplication of assessments, tests and checks in cases of significant regulatory differences and to rely on the certification system of one of the two parties for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of the other party. european and brazilian companies will benefit greatly from the implementation of the agreement, thanks to shorter and simplified product approval procedures, and therefore less burdensome, and thanks to the mutual acceptance of the results of certification. in addition, the agreement represents a clear benefit for the european union as it provides for the mutual recognition of certification results in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. in the light of the foregoing, the rapporteur proposes that parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the text of this agreement because i believe it will facilitate the exchange of goods and services between the european union and brazil, by limiting bureaucratic responsibilities as far as possible in the field of civil aviation safety.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been working to conclude a series of agreements with non-eu countries to establish common procedures for air traffic management. i therefore voted in favour of mr ţicău's text on the agreement with brazil on civil aviation safety, which aims to facilitate trade in goods and services covered by the agreement, ensuring safety and seeking to simplify and limit as far as possible the duplication of assessments, tests and checks in cases of significant regulatory differences.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this report. given that the question of the agreement between the eu, iceland and norway on the definition of a surrender mechanism following an arrest warrant is necessarily linked to the question of the european arrest warrant, which the northern league has strongly opposed because of the potential abuses against the civil liberties of citizens that such a warrant could entail, my vote can only be against it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the agreement is to improve the procedure for surrender for the purpose of criminal prosecution or the execution of a sentence between the member states and norway and iceland, taking account, as a minimum, of the terms of the convention of 27 september 1996 on extradition between the member states of the european union. there is a need to go further in the area of procedural rights, to provide citizens with a robust set of rights to be associated with the use of the european arrest warrant, thus providing guarantees in the area of civil liberties and building citizens' trust in this instrument.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fch (fuel and hydrogen cell) technologies represent long-term energy options that can be used in various sectors of the economy and offer a wide range of benefits in terms of energy security, transport, the environment and resource efficiency. they play a key role in achieving the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 85% by 2050. they are used in various aspects of daily life: from batteries in laptops and mobile phones to transport, where it is already a viable alternative to conventional vehicles with internal combustion engines. economic and legislative efforts must therefore be stepped up to break down the still strong barriers to the full development of these technologies and their large-scale commercialisation. for these reasons i have voted in favour of mr reul's report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, research and technological development are at the heart of the european objective of a constant and substantial reduction in carbon emissions. the aim of reducing emissions of polluting gases is to use alternative energy sources, and the report by mr reul, which amends regulation 521/2008 and which i voted in favour of, is precisely to encourage the use of fuel cells and hydrogen. these technologies can be the long-term solution for alternative energy production that reduces gas emissions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important subject which has been discussed in the itre committee. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur in particular, with whom i agree on everything.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fuel and hydrogen cell joint venture is a european challenge to the technology of the future. it's a company that's only been in operation for two years and it's aimed at being able to produce clean, low-cost energy. unfortunately, the reduction in funding linked to the economic and financial crisis means that activities are reduced and any positive results are therefore lost over time. it is intended that, on the basis of the proposals received, the minimum level of financing will be assessed and that, with appropriate modifications, the possibilities of spending the budget envisaged will be improved.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has taught us that we must maintain a high and constant level of vigilance over accounts and avoid conflicts of interest between companies and supervisory bodies. the european legislator must therefore establish control systems with good risk management in the field of auditing. i voted in favour of mr masip hidalgo's report because the text seeks to improve the tasks, organisation and management of audit firms which, by strengthening the supervision of financial institutions, make the accounting of every company easier and more complete.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this resolution underlines the fact that the european parliament welcomes the publication of the european commission's green paper. the house is of the opinion that statutory auditing has an important social function and is in the public interest, as it is an essential component of the democratic economic and political system. the independence of auditors is of paramount importance and in this regard the need for better two-way communication between auditors and financial supervisors of financial institutions should be noted.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time like this, when there is a great deal of uncertainty on the financial markets and international investment, there is a need to strengthen the independence of a category, the auditors, who play a fundamental role in the supervision of the operations of credit and financial institutions. the text, for which i voted in favour, stresses in particular the need to support a system of internal and external rotation within the various agencies and the implementation of joint audits, with the aim of protecting the interests of european citizens and ensuring greater transparency in an area which has been the focus of bitter controversy in recent years.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the work done by my colleague, mrs edit bauer, and i express my support for her report on the situation of women approaching retirement age. older women in europe represent a high proportion, also taking into account a longer life expectancy than men. this is why it is desirable to adopt a pension reform which also takes into account the efforts of women to reconcile their family life and their working career. i also support the commission's proposal to declare 2012 the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, with the hope that member states will guarantee free access to the prevention of gender-related diseases, create employment and volunteering opportunities that can harness women's potential and experience in the world of work, and take measures to ensure the possibility of ageing in dignity without being exposed to the risk of poverty, isolation and social exclusion.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs edit bauer, on whose report i voted in favour. i am convinced that there is a need for targeted policies to support women who are entering retirement age and ending their working lives. the text by mrs bauer has the merit of focusing attention on a number of critical points. women of retirement age are subject to two types of discrimination: the labour market penalizes them both for their gender, for the disadvantages, for the truth, that women experience from the very beginning of their careers, and for their age. in order to redress these inequities, active policies should be encouraged which promote more training opportunities and provide additional resources to reconcile work and family life. i think it is useful to implement the approach to active ageing in this context: this is a challenge made necessary by the rising life expectancy, but also by the current economic crisis, which requires everyone to do their part. in this sense, it is therefore desirable that older workers remain in the labour market by providing them with adequate employment opportunities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, as a working woman, i believe that women of all ages should be allowed to make their contribution to society and to fulfil their legitimate aspirations. this is a situation from which we would all benefit: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. this is not about subverting biology or demanding that women choose careers over family. it is a question of organizing our economic system so that integration into the world of work is not a problem, regardless of the age and sex of the jobseekers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a time of economic crisis it is right that we all contribute more. that is why i am not in favour of the proposal, because since our women throughout europe are being asked to work more, it is not clear why there should be any special treatment for immigrant women.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully supported mrs bauer's report because i believe that active ageing should play a crucial role in the policies of the european union. the statistics confirm that life expectancy is rising and it is therefore our duty to develop a strategy which also provides for integration opportunities after the end of working life. this is particularly important for women, whose role in the various economic sectors has always been significant, even in the family context. i therefore welcome the introduction of forms of assistance which will protect them in the labour market and the approach of retirement age and the strengthening of their integration with the new generations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the data speak for themselves: europe has the highest proportion of older women in the world, and this figure continues to rise year by year. the ageing of europeans is a challenge to our social security systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the gender-based one and the age-based one. although member states recognise their need for specific protection, too often the measures implemented are not geared towards gender mainstreaming. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the elderly are not excluded from the labour market. these policy choices must be oriented towards gender mainstreaming, taking into account in particular the specific difficulties of women: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the number of women in the labour force.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the number of older women in europe is increasing and it is important to encourage solidarity between the generations by ensuring that women workers remain in the labour market longer to ensure that young people are given skills. although the measure is acceptable, i am opposed to it because it gives special privileges to roma and non-community women, with specific intervention programmes, which are prejudicial to european women.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of women approaching retirement age should be treated with particular attention, especially since the european union has the highest proportion of elderly women in the world. we are on the eve of 2012, the european year of active ageing, but unfortunately, women over 50 are often subject to age and gender discrimination. i therefore voted in favour of the bauer report, which analyses the situation of this category of women and identifies a number of interesting proposals to improve the quality of their living conditions, with particular attention to the general improvement of health and working conditions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken in favour of this document on the implementation of the mediation directive in the member states. the document shows that the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises are taken into account and proposes to involve them actively in the knowledge of mediation mechanisms by promoting specific information programmes. i can only express myself positively, since the protection of smes is a fundamental aspect of my political activity.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regard the report as an excellent report on an important subject. i hope that mediation will play an important role in the future of the eu countries. the rapporteur's call to the commission for a european consensus on this new subject and the example of countries where mediation has been introduced in specific cases is welcome. i fully share the importance of dissemination and awareness-raising among european citizens.
in writing. - i welcome this regulation, which represents a major step forward for the common agricultural policy, the result of complex and detailed negotiations; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i think it is important that the european parliament continues to have a definite role in aligning the new legislative provisions of the lisbon treaty. while the adoption of these amendments is an important achievement, ensuring the uniform application of voluntary modulation of direct payments is the fundamental step towards ensuring that the legislation is well implemented in our territories and that no obstacles are created to rural development. with this regulation, european farms acquire new rights guaranteed at european level, crossing national borders. this will certainly increase the development which is a strong support for agricultural enterprises and the economic revival of the market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs reimers' report because, also in the field of voluntary modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy (cap), the european commission's powers under a number of regulations must be brought into line with articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu. in this specific case, it is regulation (ec) no 378/2007, which, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, requires the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 378/2007, for the application of which the conferral of implementing powers on the european commission is required, to be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i am convinced that this 'alignment' will strengthen, especially in the agricultural field, the roles and competences as established by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal amends council regulation (ec) no 378/2007 by adding a provision on implementing acts (article 4 (1)). the rules for recourse to the provisions of implementing acts in these articles are set out in articles 6a and 6b. furthermore, following the recent conclusion of a common understanding on the practical arrangements for the use of delegated acts (article 290 tfeu), as well as the conclusion of the procedure on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the general rules and principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers, the rapporteur proposes an updated version of the legal text including the wording agreed by parliament and the council with regard to committee procedures. the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal. on the basis of the criteria defined for each type of act, the rapporteur has carefully examined the commission proposal and identified the areas where the conditions for implementing acts are met. no inconsistencies were found.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote confirms what has already been established by the treaty of lisbon, which abolished the old system of comitology procedures, with the new two-tier structure, consisting of delegated and implementing acts. the text voted today aligns the current body of legislation with the new legal reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of a better quality of public spending. the export credit agencies do a fine job, and it is good that the member states do not give up this instrument of trade policy. at the same time, however, it is desirable that the rules for granting such credits should be clear, transparent and that checks should be carried out to remove any doubt as to the distortion of international trade. i am very proud of the eu's leadership in this respect: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres and the development of a european network of information centres.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i warmly welcome the excellent work done and i fully agree with all the points made by the rapporteur.
in writing. − the report on state-supported export credits highlights an important fact: targeted and deliberate export credits issued by the state can provide a significant support to its economic development by facilitating the acquisition of new trade opportunities, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. in order to ensure full transparency and maximum efficiency in the allocation of export credits, the report provides that each member state will have to submit an annual report to the european parliament and the commission on the operation of its export credit agency, the support credits granted and the evaluation criteria, assets, liabilities, remuneration paid and the recovery of funds, risks and premium costs. on the basis of the information received, the commission will present to the european parliament its analysis of the activities of each member state's export agency, giving meps the opportunity to introduce the necessary corrections to improve the efficiency of export credits. the amendments proposed in the report will promote transparency in the allocation of export credits and involve more directly the electorate's representatives meps in matters of importance to economic development.
in writing. - mr president, in its communication of last february the commission for the first time brought together commodities and raw materials in an integrated strategic framework. a common strategic vision is crucial and must aim, for example, at dealing with crises such as the stainless steel crisis, which has been characterised by production cuts in europe in recent months. the large companies in the sector, such as thyssen-krup, before adopting plans for divestments, redundancies and related stock exchange listing projects, must safeguard the excellence of production sites (such as terni), a site that is not separable or saleable in pieces because it is integrated and its productions are strongly interconnected. mr president, this strategy should therefore also take account of the realities of european production and employment.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a global context in which many raw materials are in short supply and europe is one of the largest importers, in a market often dominated by monopolies from third countries, it is essential to ensure a secure and competitive supply for european industry. i believe that a european raw materials strategy can pursue important objectives such as secure and competitively priced supplies for europe, a more sustainable use of existing resources and economic opportunity for european businesses. a raw materials strategy can also be an economic opportunity for europe, provided it does not place an additional burden on businesses over existing environmental legislation. in my view, an effective strategy must be based on an integrated approach that makes the most of existing european legislation governing resource efficiency in different areas. for this reason i do not support an overly prescriptive approach in terms of raw material management, recycling, recovery and reuse objectives, which imposes binding principles and further affects producer responsibility. finally, this strategy should be an integral part of a policy aimed at promoting research and innovation as a stimulus to the competitiveness of european smes.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution stresses the need to develop new approaches to the sourcing and use of raw materials. the proposal is certainly acceptable, since it interprets many of the basic principles of our policy. in particular, i welcome the attention to the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises shown by the proposal. i also fully share the call for the strengthening of democratic principles and respect for human rights to be placed at the heart of any partnership between the eu and third countries that supply materials. in my political activity i have always denounced the violations of human rights by the governments of many of the countries to which the eu has to refer for the supply of raw materials and i can therefore only share the perspectives contained in this proposal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the bütikofer report on an effective raw materials strategy in europe because it has long been expected that the framework would focus on access to strategic raw materials such as rare earths, as well as on the issues of resource efficiency, recycling and the substitution of certain materials through efficient waste management. in an era such as the present, in which environmental risks and problems are real and widely shared concerns of society, it is important first of all to encourage the recycling and reuse of materials, especially the rarest materials, the availability of which may prove too limited to allow indiscriminate use, as well as the safeguarding and respect of natural habitats and biodiversity. it is also acceptable and desirable that europe should be able to guarantee the supply of these materials by means of a policy of friendship and support towards the producing countries, while also taking account of the needs of the latter, which are often countries in economic and social emergency. i also welcome the call for greater coordination within the union on the extraction and processing of raw materials and for greater attention to price volatility which is likely to cause serious distortions in the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think that, on the whole, the rapporteur has done a very good job and that the european parliament has a duty to give its opinion on such a strategically important subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the fact that i was born and grew up in a time of peace, as many of my colleagues have, fortunately, cannot make us forget how vital it is to ensure a continuous and constant supply of raw materials at prices which do not fluctuate excessively. i would pay particular attention to the relationship between the exploitation of raw materials and the environment. a tax should be calibrated so that it is not perceived as the price to be paid for the right to pollute, but as a strong disincentive to unethical behaviour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to ensure a strong industrial base in the eu is a priority for economic development which requires a careful assessment of the supply of raw materials, which will allow the achievement of a competitive and low-carbon economy. i therefore supported this resolution because the eu needs sustainable and fair supplies in its relations with third countries, but it must also develop a well-balanced strategy for innovation and ambitious industrial research and an effective trade and own resources policy. to this end, a significant role must be played by the adoption of good raw material management practices that can help to increase energy-efficient recycling, and the use of green technologies that i believe are essential for competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply in the medium and long term.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european industry is facing an increasingly difficult situation in terms of the supply of raw materials. the increase in global demand, combined with insufficient supply, and the increasing use of export restrictions by resource-rich countries are causing not only record price increases but also possible supply difficulties. the resolution adopted today, in addition to an innovative industrial strategy to reduce resource consumption and increase recycling, proposes to support, on a non-financial basis, a raw materials holding company which brings together a number of european companies for the supply of raw materials. the european union needs a comprehensive and integrated strategy, focusing on short and long-term measures that can be implemented internally and internationally, in particular for key raw materials such as rare earths. at the heart of this approach must be an industrial innovation strategy based on resource efficiency and recycling, which are the only effective measures to adequately address the triple challenge of ensuring future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a global context in which many raw materials are in short supply and where europe is in some way forced to import massively from third countries, it is of paramount importance to devise a strategy to ensure a secure supply and better use of raw materials, thus safeguarding the competitiveness of european industries. the aim of mr bütikofer's report is to include a wide range of raw materials in the european commission's communication, so that the availability of these raw materials, the potential demand for them and the appropriate action to be taken can be carefully assessed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century the eu has been the target and victim of terrorism more than ever. the serious terrorist acts that have occurred on the territory of the union since the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001 in the united states, including the attacks in madrid in 2004 and london in 2005, have had a significant impact on the common sense of security of european citizens. terrorism is certainly not a recent phenomenon, however, in recent decades it has taken on new forms, such as cyberterrorism, while terrorist networks have become more sophisticated in terms of structures and funding, making the terrorist threat even more difficult to counter. europol's 2011 report on the situation and trends of terrorism in europe indicates that the threat of terrorist attacks in the union remains serious and that the links between terrorism and organised crime are growing. in the light of these facts, i believe that the prevention, investigation and prosecution of terrorist activities are crucial policies at union level and that they must form part of a systematic approach based not on emergency rules but on a coherent strategy that promotes, at the same time, dialogue, tolerance and understanding between different cultures, civilizations and religions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the present and future management of fisheries in the black sea. the proposal concerns the strengthening of trade cooperation between the eu and the black sea states, in particular the russian federation, ukraine, georgia and turkey. since the proposal is aimed solely at regulating a commercial activity in an area shared by the eu, proposing the adoption of measures that are certainly acceptable, such as the eradication of illegal activities, and does not go beyond the most controversial issue of political cooperation between the eu and states such as turkey, it can therefore be accepted.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs iotova. i agree with the establishment of institutionalised coordination in the black sea, a closed basin of considerable economic, social and political importance for the countries bordering it, in order to ensure the economic development of the coastal areas and to safeguard and protect the ecological balance and fishery resources of the basin. in addition, cooperation in the fisheries sector between the countries of the black sea region will be a major step forward for the preservation of the ecosystem. the approach to decision-making, as the rapporteur stresses, must be articulated on two levels: the commission has also proposed that the two fisheries areas be combined into a european and a regional fisheries area, in particular by setting up a regional fisheries management body for the black sea, separate from the gfcm, because of the different characteristics of the two basins. bulgaria and romania, as eu member states, have to apply a number of measures to preserve fish stocks but this requires the cooperation of the other countries bordering the black sea to achieve the maximum result through cooperation between states. the eu will thus affirm its commitment to the region through the development of sustainable fisheries, creating positive spillovers for the whole black sea
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report adopted today aims to define the framework for the medium- and long-term development of fisheries in the black sea region. the final document is particularly important since no coordinated action has been taken so far in the black sea by all the fishermen involved. institutional coordination can guarantee tangible results in protecting the livelihoods of fishermen, ensuring the economic development of coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fishery resources of the basin. this applies not only to the member states of the european union but also to all the other black sea countries. the report also stresses the need to establish a regional fisheries management body in the black sea.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, internal supplies of hydrocarbons make a significant contribution to the eu's energy consumption and energy security: over 90% of oil and 60% of gas is produced by offshore operations. the recent oil rig disaster in the gulf of mexico has prompted offshore oil drilling operators to reexamine the safety of their industry. the initial reactions to this disaster were marked by disorganization, lack of oversight and inconsistent public information. the lessons that i believe we can learn from this unfortunate accident should guide the design of emergency systems and recovery equipment. i believe that a national oil spill in the eu should trigger national emergency plans which provide for greater coordination between the competent authorities and the strengthening of the information exchange system. the new commission proposals should not reduce the effect of rules already in place in the member states, but should aim to extend best practice to all european waters, while ensuring that they are rigorously implemented. to this end, i agree that it is appropriate to strengthen the powers of the european maritime safety agency and to provide for greater accountability for the companies involved.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the ford report on the safety of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector because it is one of the first european parliament's statements of position on the european commission's communication following the disaster in the gulf of mexico (april 2010). although the existing legislative framework provides a strong basis for ensuring human and environmental safety, the report considers that there is still a wide margin for developing an approach that ensures an adequate level of environmental protection throughout europe, so as to achieve the highest possible level of safety and environmental protection standards in all offshore oil and gas activity areas. i find the focus on responsibility in the event of an environmental disaster particularly interesting: the polluter pays principle places responsibility on industry, although the state is also called upon to monitor to ensure general safety and coordination of activities in the event of a disaster. in addition to industry and the state, the report refers to an 'independent third party' which, in this case, could coincide with emsa (european maritime safety agency), whose already important role in the event of an accident would be greatly strengthened.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious disaster that occurred more than a year ago on the deepwater horizon oil platform in the gulf of mexico has reminded us of the importance of increasing safety measures for offshore oil and gas extraction. to this end, i would like to stress the need for more effective dialogue and cooperation between the control bodies in order to harmonise and improve the various european safety standards. it is also worth noting that the more dangerous drilling operations are carried out at the more than 1,000 installations in the north sea, while offshore installations in the mediterranean sea are less dangerous because they do not extract oil and gas at critical depths. each mining operation should therefore be examined according to its specific characteristics and risks. we are now waiting for the commission's legislative proposal to make these rules binding, which guarantee the safety of our seas and ours.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs ford's report because, following the experience of the united states of america with hurricane katrina in 2005, the eu decided to increase controls on oil platforms by modernising the existing regulation through the text in question. trying to make offshore activities safer against unpredictable natural phenomena is the least we can do to avoid environmental disasters. the european maritime safety agency will have the authority necessary for the control activities.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, internal supplies of hydrocarbons make a significant contribution to the energy consumption and energy security of the european union. over 90% of oil and 60% of gas are produced by offshore operations. activity is not evenly distributed across the eu and most operations take place in the north sea. a number of incidents in recent years have prompted all operators to review and improve the safety of their industry. the resolution adopted today proposes measures to protect the environment from all possible pollution risks. finally, it is important to note that in order to develop a strong safety culture it is vital to involve workers working on the high seas in health and safety initiatives, as they are often the ones best placed to identify the obstacles to be overcome and the solutions to be adopted.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the offshore extraction activities, especially after the disaster in the gulf of mexico. the most important extraction sites for europe are in the north sea and often in waters outside eu jurisdiction. the mediterranean sea, off the coast of north africa and therefore outside european waters, is also the site of major extractive activities. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given the possibility of adopting a national emergency plan for the recovery of the resources of the community. it is essential that the eu should demand that its rules be conformed to common criteria and in particular that the polluter pays principle be recognised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. − the 2010 environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico in the us led to a reassessment of the existing safety regulations for offshore oil and gas production in the eu as well. the available data are conclusive over 90% of oil and 60% of gas in the eu is extracted from offshore activities. energy consumption continues to rise rapidly, while traditional sources of energy are being depleted, requiring deeper and riskier drilling and more advanced technologies. how can oil and gas activities be regulated without harming the environment or the economy? first, there is a need for uniform, general eu standards to control these activities. oil and gas projects submitted shall be assessed individually, taking into account their different environmental and technical conditions. the basic principles must be clear no project may be licensed without an effective crisis response plan and the necessary resources. the industry concerned should continue to be liable for the damage caused. secondly, cross-border authorities must be established to monitor compliance with agreed standards, respond to incidents and conduct audits. such a joint body is already working successfully in the nordic countries; it is also needed in other regions, including the baltic sea. the european maritime safety agency could monitor the activities and standards of these bodies in the eu and its maritime borders.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disaster in mexico last year, which caused serious environmental damage, led the european union to revise the legislation on oil extraction. the european parliament, in the text presented by mrs ford, is committed to ensuring greater control over the rules in force and to highlighting the responsibilities of producers in the event of ecological disasters. i also welcome the extension of the powers of the european maritime safety agency. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, rigid gender roles still hinder individual choices and limit the potential of women. in fact, even now most women do not consider entrepreneurship as a career opportunity to be considered, this is because in the 21st century women are still crushed by the stereotype that they are not made to be successful business leaders, despite having proven themselves to be more than competent in the workplace and with great capacity in the business world. in addition, pay disparities, barriers to employment, lack of childcare facilities and other well-known obstacles limit women in creating a satisfactory working future. in the run-up to the europe 2020 strategy, i hope that the commission will urge member states to inform women about the funding and training opportunities offered by the many community programmes and to invest in their future.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on women's entrepreneurship in small businesses. it is essential to proceed with the process of effective recognition of women's skills in the workplace and to provide them with the appropriate assistance to strengthen their professional position. i also agree with the need to encourage women to enter the business world on an equal footing with their male colleagues, thus eliminating unnecessary gender discrimination. women entrepreneurs must become a pillar of our labour market and their important contribution to the eu economy must be recognised. i agree with the rapporteur that more support, including through a more formal structure, should be given to the voluntary group of female ambassadors in the member states in order to make the network, which has the aim of promoting and assisting women in business, more profitable and efficient.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis which has hit all sectors of the economy in recent years has hit small and mediumsized enterprises particularly hard. given the importance of smes at european level in terms of employment rates (around 67% compared with 32% in large enterprises) and value added to the economy (just under 60%), i believe that stimulating all sectors of small and mediumsized enterprises is particularly important. the report by mrs yannakoudakis focuses specifically on women's entrepreneurship and suggests various measures to strengthen this sector. i think it is most appropriate to support the measures proposed, stressing in particular the importance of promoting, especially in the new member states, good practices already in place in other countries. in addition, i welcome the commission's support for women entrepreneurs and women-owned enterprises (section 3 of regulation (ec) no 800/2008) as a positive contribution to the broader framework of measures to stimulate economic recovery in europe.
in writing. - the adoption of this own-initiative report shows parliament's concern for the growth of women's employment in a sector of major economic importance such as entrepreneurship. women have traditionally faced greater obstacles than men in accessing the labour market, but this is particularly evident in the business sector. it is therefore important to encourage the presence of women entrepreneurs through targeted actions: the commission has also been active in the field of women's em ployment, in particular by facilitating access to credit - in this respect the european progress microfinance facility can be of great help - or by funding exchange initiatives, such as an erasmus for young women entrepreneurs, which can encourage women to take up such a vocational vocation. the european union must therefore work to promote the presence of women in european small and mediumsized enterprises by removing the economic and social obstacles they encounter.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported this report not only to reaffirm the role of women in the business world, which seems to me to be rather rhetorical and reductive, but also to set out together on a common path between the countries of the european union so that, in a similar way and by combining the best practices acquired in recent years, we can move towards a shared goal. even the application of the different support systems in the member states does not meet homogeneous and shared criteria because they are often influenced by both cultural needs and individual practices which differ from one country to another. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the yannakoudakis report on women entrepreneurs in small and mediumsized enterprises because women working in the many small and mediumsized enterprises across europe need to be able to achieve a work-life balance that helps women who start their own businesses to ensure their financial and professional independence. i also think in particular of the need for member states to adopt policies to establish adequate childcare facilities, which is a prerequisite for women who want to start a business. i have noted with concern that many women-owned businesses are located within objective 1 regions and will soon no longer be among the disadvantaged regions as a result of the accession of new countries. one of the problems of these regions is that they have rural areas which are not yet sufficiently developed and where the development of small and mediumsized enterprises would be desirable.
in writing. - women are active in the labour market, have equal rights but unfortunately, for social reasons, fewer opportunities than men. the report in question, for which i have given my favourable opinion, takes account of both the private and professional lives of women and focuses on the social causes which make it difficult for women to be entrepreneurs, compared with men, in order to ensure that women can achieve economic and professional as well as family fulfillment. in conclusion, the text opens up more opportunities for women in small and mediumsized european enterprises.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it recognizes the right value of all women entrepreneurs, especially those at the helm of small and mediumsized enterprises, the fundamental engine of the entire european economic system. we all know that the contribution of women to the world of work is now an undisputed and established reality. the member states must therefore continue to fight gender discrimination without delay, all under the leadership of the european institutions. every woman must have the right to choose the role she wishes to play in her family as well as in the community in which she lives! to do this, each state must put in place the most appropriate initiatives to help women enter the world of entrepreneurship, which has been dominated by men for too long. the approach that banks must take to women entrepreneurs is essential in this delicate process. credit institutions must have specific support plans in place to help women entrepreneurs to start their own business.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that in some european countries women have difficulty in gaining access to self-employment. fortunately, in my country the situation is favourable for women entrepreneurs, for not only is the president of confindustria a woman, but we can be proud of the fact that most businesses are run by women. what needs to be addressed is the lack of adequate services for women entrepreneurs, who often have to combine their work with their family life. a woman who runs a shop open six days a week and perhaps continuously needs different services from those needed by female employees who may take leave and parental leave or services provided by the companies themselves, such as company day nurseries. although the measure is acceptable, i shall vote against it because it gives special privileges to roma and non-community women in a way that is prejudicial to european citizens, through specific intervention programmes.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very often women, especially wives and mothers, are not given easy access to the world of entrepreneurship. the lack of availability or high cost of childcare facilities can, for example, discourage a young mother from starting a business or working independently. the yannakoudakis report aims to improve these situations by suggesting a series of measures to increase the number of women entrepreneurs in the european union and to ensure equal opportunities. i think it is particularly appropriate that the text calls on the member states and the european commission to identify the main barriers to women's entrepreneurship and access to finance, in order to enable an increasing number of women to enter the world of small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs hautala and mrs sargentini on their excellent work. with the lisbon treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights, transparency has become a fundamental right of european citizens. we are on the right track, but unfortunately there is still a lot of resistance when it comes to transparency. in my opinion, there is no middle ground: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission refuses to accept the proposed amendments to the regulation on access to documents which the european parliament had put forward in the cashman report and which provide for greater transparency. the council, for its part, systematically refuses to make known the identity of the member states during discussions and votes in the council. the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament continue to hide their legal opinions under pretexts, despite the judgment of the court of justice in the turkish case. there is also a lot of resistance in the european parliament to ensuring that citizens have access to information, especially on the activities of members and the expenditure of the institution and its members. the so-called galvin report has finally been published, unfortunately without names; i believe that transparency is one of the fundamental pillars of democracy in the fight against abuse of power, against waste and corruption and in bringing citizens closer to the institutions. i think that the hautala-sargentini report is moving in this direction and that it therefore deserves the utmost support. as shadow rapporteur for the alde group i shall be voting in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done, which offers interesting ideas for improving the quality and effectiveness of european legislation. i shall simply stress a few aspects which i consider particularly important: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. the same objective requires the high quality of correlation tables between directives and national transposition measures, with greater recourse to ex post evaluation of the legislation implemented. these are essential if eu legislation is to achieve its primary objective of meeting the expectations of its citizens, businesses operating in the single market and national and local administrations.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the report we are voting on tomorrow, but i am thinking of how far the debate on the european institutions is from the daily lives of almost 500 million european citizens. five hundred million inhabitants and 1 600 petitions last year, of which more than 1 000 have been filed, show how well-known, useful and effective this instrument is, not to mention the hundreds of petitions from previous years which are still pending. i see that the committee visited naples last year, but more than the committee on petitions, a miracle is needed to resolve the situation there. the positive thing is that it is about the right of initiative of a million european citizens who can petition. it is a pity that even if the 400 million europeans did not all sign what parliament has already discussed and voted on, for example the incredible situation of the european parliament's two seats in brussels and strasbourg, the remoteness of the european institutions at a time of economic crisis, cuts and savings from italy, spain, greece, about 400 million superfluous costs to meet here in strasbourg once a month, there is no petition, there is no popular will that can suppress all this. i therefore wish the committee well, knowing that this is probably not the way the institutions will respond to the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner šefčovič and mr meyer for the work they have done. this report, as every year, gives an account of the work done in the previous year and is therefore certainly a report of appreciation and i take all the criticisms which i take as suggestions made by my colleagues and i start with that of my colleague mrs werthmann, who speaks of a repetitiveness of the topics and a lack of efficiency in the action of the committee. on the subject of the environment, which is a recurring theme in our committee as a subject of concern from citizens, we are discussing a report to ask for in this very house, we would like to bring it to parliament, a report to ask the commission to intervene taking into account the complaints made by citizens of the european union. but there were also significant developments this year. the first and most important one mentioned by my colleagues is the one concerning the adoption of the regulation on the popular initiative: the popular initiative is an initiative which gives legislative power to the citizens, so it is not an initiative, as my colleague mr salvini said, which aims to petition a larger number of citizens, it gives legislative power, and that is an important fact. on the popular initiative the committee on petitions has claimed a role within the regulatory procedure which has been provided for in order to be able to give rise to the citizens' hearings as also agreed with commissioner šefčovič and others, and i hope that this request of the committee will be followed up. i think it is also essential to give a different approach to the problems connected with the application of the charter of fundamental rights, which is also mentioned in the report, and on which the committee on petitions and the executive committee are planning a seminar on 6 october, with the participation of academics and scholars, to provide answers which can serve as our guidelines. i think that the committee on petitions is not the way to solve the problems of the citizens, but the way to promote the democracy that is needed to promote and build a political europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, just under a year ago this parliament adopted the new directive against late payment. it was a fundamental overhaul which, by imposing certain payment deadlines on public administrations, meets the demands of businesses and citizens and is a formidable counter-cyclical measure, also against the unemployment which is plaguing our countries. i would remind you that in the european union one in four companies fails because of late payment by public authorities, with many jobs lost. the united states will have to receive the new legislative provisions by 16 march 2013. in this connection i would like to ask commissioner tajani what steps the commission is taking to ensure that the directive is correctly transposed into their legal systems and to facilitate an early entry into force of the directive as promised by some member states?
member of the commission. − there is certainly a directive on information and consultation. restructuring has also been considered as an important area to develop new legislation. we have to see clearly, before speaking about potential conflict with eu law, what actually happened or is happening, and this is still before us. we also have to consider what this might represent as regards cases. we are continuing our work on restructuring and this will be a major issue on my agenda, in cooperation with colleagues in the commission, and will potentially bear fruit next year.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask commissioner tajani a question, also because in the committee on industry, before the summer break, the final report of the work of the high level group on key enabling technologies was presented. kets will become the second raw material for innovation. i think that when we think about work we cannot help thinking about work for young people and innovative work. i think what's in that extremely interesting report is that it talks about how from now until 2015, the market for nanotechnology will grow by 16 percent, the market for nanoelectronics by 13 percent, the market for biotechnology by 6 percent, the market for photonics by 8 percent. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i ask the commissioner what the commission intends to do to promote all this which will be our future.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i see that the mediterranean members have heeded the president's appeal and have given mr andor a rest. i thank mr sartori for his question. the high-level group, chaired by jean therme and myself, has produced some very positive results and has shown that the potential for growth and therefore job creation in this sector is impressive, from 5% to 16% depending on the technology considered, between now and 2015, with a turnover expected to rise from 832 billion dollars today to about 1 300 billion dollars in the next five years. i wonder what other sectors can create development and growth in a similar way. it is a strategic sector, covering many products, from computers to all high-tech products and renewable energy sources, so it is also important for our action against climate change, in favour of the green economy that commissioner andor spoke about earlier and for which the commission is strongly committed, also because it creates jobs and produces welfare and at this moment i believe it is very important that we all commit ourselves to growth by also focusing on these highly innovative sectors. we must, however, move from the research phase to the financing of major projects which demonstrate the value of this action and move, as was also emphasized in the final document to which mr sartori referred on kets, to the fact that it is important to work on research in these areas, but it is even more important to work on applied research in these areas, because europe, unlike our competitors worldwide, works a lot on research and not enough on applied research, and this is the objective on which the commission will try to concentrate a lot of its efforts.
mr commissioner, on this very subject of applied research, i know you are very busy, can you give us some more examples?
member of the commission. − we are working on the further development of the social dialogue in the eu. i have also been to ireland and portugal, the difficult cases mentioned by the honourable member, and the discussion was very far from undermining or abolishing the social dialogue. in certain countries there is probably a need to reform the social dialogue in its existing forms, but you are unlikely to have ever seen the commission supporting, advocating or demanding any diminishing of the social dialogue. on the contrary. in the europe 2020 flagship initiative ‘agenda for new skills and jobs’, we introduced a new element in the social dialogue at eu level, the tripartite social forum, in addition to the existing tripartite social summit. it has a wider format which involves more sectoral representatives, and contributes to the dialogue at european level. the social dialogue will probably not be the same after the crisis as before, but i am sure it will be stronger at european level and i believe there will be many other cases where new elements will emerge.
member of the commission. − well, mr kelly, i have already spoken about the talktalk case earlier; i can just add that the existing forms of eu support using the european social fund and the globalisation adjustment fund might also be relevant if the irish authorities request this. i believe these are possible ways. ireland has been using the egf quite well. this door is open and i would like to ensure that the crisis delegations continue after this year until the end of this period. in the next financial framework too the egf will preserve the capacity to support workers in such difficult cases. there is another element which i should perhaps mention in the context of restructuring: the role of social dialogue and the social partners in cases. i also think it is important not just to speak with the european social partners but perhaps the non-european ones as well – amcham for example – or rather foreign investors to ensure that there is sufficient understanding of what it means in the eu to follow certain norms, certain standards and certain legislation, and to develop this business culture and social model together.
member of the commission. − in answer to the question on the working time directive, i would like to stress that in the period where the social partners have not yet indicated their readiness to negotiate, the commission refrains from making substantial comments on the working time directive, or what a new working time directive could bring as regards certain elements. therefore, i would like to ask for your patience, at least for a couple of days, until we learn from both sides of the european social partners what their decision will be.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask commissioner tajani a question. the data available to us show that the tourism sector, although it has generally declined as a result of the crisis, is one of the sectors that has responded best to the crisis. moreover, it is the economic sector which is showing the most encouraging and consistent signs of recovery. the european union is the world's leading tourist destination for international arrivals and has great potential for attraction. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism. in particular, we must strengthen links with the emerging countries, the bric countries, which represent several million potential tourists for europe, but also promote professional figures oriented towards these new tourist flows. what is the european commission doing about this?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr fidanza, as you know, we are working hard to try to keep europe as the number one tourist destination, with agreements also at international level, so that europe can be more and more attractive; we signed agreements with china because there is a middle class with millions and millions of chinese people interested in spending their holidays outside their country, the work is intense with china, as it is intense with south american countries. we have signed an agreement for a pilot project with south america to develop tourist presence during the off-season. we have had great success in chile and we will be signing with brazil in the coming days at the eu-brazil summit, and then i will sign with argentina. the most important european airlines have joined this project, and all the tour operators' organisations have joined it. we are also working with the russian federation because we are convinced that there are also in russia, and we already have evidence of this in europe, millions of potential tourists, even wealthy ones who can spend. of course, as is well known, tourism provides employment for many young people, and it is important to be able to increase tourist arrivals during the low season, which is why the pilot project with latin america, a sector of the world with which europe should and could do much more, is so important. we are also working hard to transform the big european events, i think the london olympics and i also think the milan expo 2015 as great opportunities to also attract tourists. any action to promote the development of tourism, small and mediumsized enterprises and large tourism businesses means being able to attract new young people, because we know that this is a sector which creates jobs for young people. of course, we need to improve the skills of tourism businesses by focusing on cybernetics and computerization, to make them more competitive at a time when there are other realities in the world that are looking closely at the emerging economies from which more and more tourists are coming.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve these objectives not only the coordination skills which the commission is putting into practice are needed, but also, and inevitably, resources. parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for the commission in the negotiations on the financial perspective for 2014-2020. can you give us any sign of confidence in this?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal, in addition to creating and proposing this large package of 80 billion for innovation, which therefore covers all business sectors, also provides for some 3 billion euros for the competitiveness of our companies beyond innovation. i am absolutely convinced that funds can be earmarked in this area for the development of the competitiveness and also the internationalisation of our european tourism enterprises.
member of the commission. − i will start, and the vice-president might like to continue. all the points mr howitt referred to are important parts of the forthcoming initiative which is scheduled for october. this is the very important product of a trio: together with vice-president tajani and commissioner barnier i have been working on two important proposals. one of them is on the csr which you referred to and the other one is on the social enterprise. indeed, we would like to ensure, especially in a period when europe is emerging from an economic crisis, that csr is seen as an important instrument to help the european economy and society emerge from the crisis with a lot more responsibility. that responsibility will be a key concept vis-à-vis the employees of the firm and vis-à-vis the social and natural environment of an enterprise.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also agree with commissioner andor's view on the development of a policy which is recognised in the social market economy, as stated in the treaty, and which gives us this objective. i believe that the communication on corporate social responsibility can make an important contribution, also to employment growth, and therefore with positive messages, also because an approach which also includes the creation of better ways of working can contribute to the competitiveness of companies themselves. a commission survey says that over 60% of companies that have had equal opportunities policies say that these policies have contributed to a greater capacity for innovation, job creation; i would say that this choice, which we are approving, is being discussed within the directorates-general, but any suggestion from parliament will also be welcome, if you would like to send me your suggestions or your ideas, i will be happy to take them into consideration. until the final approval of the text by the college, the text is always open to amendment and any proposal from parliament will therefore always be welcome as far as i am concerned.
member of the commission. − i agree. bogus self-employment is a serious issue, although not in every member state in the same way, but it is true that such practices have developed in the recent period by using loopholes or abusing certain opportunities and this needs to be looked at, based on the evidence. there are particular professions where this is more widespread, for example journalism, where there was also a kind of stimulus to take this route and transform individuals into being self-employed instead of being employed in a company. while there might be perceived short-term advantages for the employee and potentially for other actors involved, i am also convinced that the long-term impact is negative. pensions are clearly an example where we see the lack of sufficient contributions. i think it is important to close the loopholes and to see how the incentives which generated these patterns could be abolished or cut back so that we would face such practices less often. but, as long as such patterns exist, we also have to see how general norms of economic activity and social norms apply to individuals in such forms of employment.
member of the commission. − the cases of bogus self-employment and posting of workers are two separate phenomena. posting is a very important ingredient of the cross-border integrated european economy. what we are preparing now is an enforcement directive that will clarify the interpretation and implementation of the existing posting directive. in fact one of the problems here, which is comparable to bogus self-employment, is the case of the so-called letter-box companies, which is connected to the right of establishment. we have to look at such phenomena to see why they emerged and eliminate the opportunities for such abuse of the existing legislation.
member of the commission. − the world of labour has indeed gone through a massive transformation due to technology, globalisation and various other factors. we have to study this very thoroughly because some of the atypical forms of work – like fixed-term contracts or self-employment – might be generated by these transformations. to the extent that they bring positive change, new opportunities, more efficiency, and better coordination of private life with work, we have to welcome these changes, but there is also some risk attached. that is what the commission is looking at. with regard to how it affects employment policies, i think in the agenda for new skills and jobs we highlighted the need to respond to the challenges of the new times and reflect this transformation. a conference on flexicurity on 16 november, which was mentioned at the beginning of this discussion, also intends to explore the consequences of changing patterns and point to certain directions where the commission would need to act or bring out new initiatives.
member of the commission. - i'll answer in hungarian to the guard. so i think the commission should monitor all these changes and is monitoring them. and when we come to a point of legislation that has to be taken into account, such as the posted workers directive mentioned earlier or the working time directive, we always take into account new factors or new conditions. but very often it is not necessarily the european commission itself that has to take action. for example, the social partners. i believe that when we encourage the social partners to work together more closely to anticipate the change in skills and expertise and to develop new forms of cooperation, we are in fact laying a broader foundation for modernisation, which should also affect the labour market and different forms of employment, and this will result in a stronger, more competitive european economy.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think it is not necessary to stress that the serious crisis in which europe finds itself requires that we find a means of giving greater development to small and mediumsized enterprises. we have already discussed this in the question, but we also discussed it back in 2008, when i was rapporteur for parliament on the strengthening of european smes in international trade. more than three years have passed and we are still unable to find a system to unbureaucratize and help smes within the single market, which is a problem, i would also remind you, because if there is no customs harmonization, it will be difficult for the single market to respond to the needs of european consumers and businesses, but there is also no answer to make the integration of smes more extensive and faster. on that occasion, in 2008, this parliament, by 437 votes, had pointed out to the commission that there should be harmonised and simplified rules within free trade areas, that it should be possible to remove too many barriers, that it should be possible to think about the creation of a system of international arbitration courts that is quick and inexpensive, to enable smes to avoid the long lines, the difficulties that a dispute with the customs or commercial authorities of certain third countries entailed. we thought and approved of reducing the cost of customs procedures with transparency and simplifying those procedures, we called for the harmonization of international rules, more effective registration of the origin of goods and the modernisation of customs controls, the latter being essential to prevent counterfeiting to the detriment of consumers and producers. today we are again discussing the same problems, with a huge crisis. we need to take immediate action and we hope that the commission will take it.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would first of all like to thank the honourable member for raising this question, because i think it is crucial in this very complicated phase of the crisis. if we are to win the challenge of the crisis, we must support the real economy. and to support the real economy, we must work for small and mediumsized enterprises, which of course must develop within the european union. there is a large internal market of 500 million citizens, consumers. at the same time, to prevent the relocation of companies, efforts must be made to promote internationalisation. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that these 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises can really be an extraordinary instrument for growth at the moment. we have a duty to help them and to remove all the obstacles they encounter, because we know that even the tools we offer them are not enough: the positive initiative, the commission's helpdesk, also at national level is very useful for small and medium-sized enterprises; the european commission has decided to appoint an ambassador for small and medium-sized enterprises, mr pmi a meeting of all the european union's ambassadors for small and medium-sized enterprises is being convened tomorrow and this is already a signal that all 27 member states have appointed their ambassadors in the shortest possible time. it is an important step but we need a stronger strategy, the internal market is not enough, we have to look elsewhere and the data we have are unfortunately not positive: only 25% of smes work outside their own country and only 13% work outside the european union. too little compared to the potential of this extraordinary network of people who create jobs and well-being! that is why we are working to implement this concrete strategy in support of internationalisation in the short term. in this way we aim to do a number of things: to draw up an inventory of the instruments available at european, national and regional level; increasing the transparency of these instruments and coordinating them, because smes often have so many instruments but do not know which to use in the best way and often are either in contrast or in competition with each other, thus serving to encourage greater cooperation; we must rationalise support actions for potential markets by proposing, for example, guidelines and good practices on the basis of geographical priorities; we must create an online portal for example, which will be available for all information, both thematic and per country. i believe i have answered thus to the first question, and not to the second. the updating of the customs legislation which was discussed during the intervention in the presentation of the question reconciled the commitment to facilitate trade with customs control by means of appropriate instruments, such as the extensive use of standard computer systems. in this sense it particularly favours the interests of smes by simplifying and making less costly the completion of customs formalities by means of computer solutions; the increasing use of information technology will enable small and mediumsized enterprises to be more competitive and also to coordinate better both from the customs point of view and in all other areas where action is needed to help businesses. smes may, for example, obtain the status of an economic operator equipped to facilitate the fulfilment of customs formalities, or, on the other hand, in the context of the measures for the implementation of the updated customs code which are being studied and which take account of the specific characteristics of each economic operator, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. the third question is that while small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to operate internationally can now benefit from a number of national and european bodies and programmes, it is also necessary to achieve greater coherence between the various schemes to support smes, in particular by encouraging synergies and complementarity between existing instruments without creating duplicates. the coordination at european, national and regional level of support measures for new or existing smes, as well as for the external dimension of the union, based on the principles of complementarity, efficiency and sustainability, will be an integral part of the commission's strategy. question number four: the commission's policies shall aim at promoting the opening up of international trade and the elimination of obstacles to trade, with a view to ensuring non-discrimination for european union enterprises, including smes. the present economic context makes these principles even more indispensable and the commission considers that public procurement represents a new opportunity for the international dimension of trade. it is for this reason that we, as the commission, are concerned to integrate the interests of european countries, including the pmi, in all the bilateral trade negotiations that are under way, as well as in the framework of the multilateral agreement on public procurement. the commission is also currently reflecting on a policy instrument which aims to show greater symmetry and reciprocity in market access negotiations. in its study of the impact of this initiative, the commission analysed in particular the impact of sme participation in public procurement in third countries. the fifth asked: the commission is fully aware of the essential role of small and medium-sized enterprises in supporting and developing the european economy and also in overcoming the crisis, so protecting the interests of these enterprises - and in addition also of micro enterprises, of which too little is said - is a priority. in its communication 'a strategic vision for european standardisation', the commission laid the foundations for increasing the active participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the european standardisation process. in order to implement this strategy, the proposed regulation on european standardisation is intended to finance the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in standardisation activities. similarly, the commission strongly supports the use of international standards, mainly developed by the international organization for standardization and the international electrotechnical commission. european standards must be drawn up taking into account existing international standards in order to facilitate international trade and to help small and medium-sized enterprises lacking the resources to adapt their production to standards which are often incompatible with those of the various countries outside the internal market of the union. the commission has also initiated trade and economic dialogues with the countries most important for the european economy, the united states, russia, china and japan, and in that context it is also discussing the various policies of standardization in order to develop solutions aimed at a free trade of products in the future. i also found it very interesting, as i was anticipating from mr theurer when we spoke before the beginning of this sitting, that i am also signing agreements with latin american countries, another market which is extremely interesting for small and mediumsized enterprises. therefore, standardization and small and medium-sized enterprises in chile, argentina, brazil, but also an important work in the north of africa, where are being born many small and medium-sized enterprises that can give hope to the young, which have been protagonists of the revolution of the past months, but where also our small and medium-sized enterprises can realize joint venture in those african countries and therefore not only help the stabilization, therefore a political role in the phase of internationalization of our small and medium-sized enterprises, but also business, because if it is to be able to explore markets where there is already a deep european presence, but where my judgment if can still do more for the growth and development of the african continent, for the stabilization of the area of the mediterranean, but also to cut the grass under the feet of terrorism, fundamentalism and piracy; i therefore also foresee an important political role for our small and mediumsized enterprises in a delicate area such as the mediterranean. that is why working for internationalisation becomes a priority for me and i believe that this strong collaboration with the european parliament can become truly fundamental for the growth of a sector of the economy which i consider vital and decisive to get out of the crisis.
the european union is facing a crisis which could lead to the dissolution of the greatest political and institutional project of the tragic 20th century or to a decisive step forward in the process of integration. the governments which are calling for a reduction in europe's financial prospects or are acting against the assumptions of revising the treaty to strengthen the euro are therefore worried, and so are all those initiatives which do not want to give priority to the real economy over the financial one, the dream of so many irresponsible people who continue to fly in the skies over europe. smes are also called upon to play their part in entering new markets, offering new products, adapting to the choices of the global market, strengthening their capital, investing in research and innovation, and demonstrating - as they are demonstrating - that in a changing world no one can carve out for himself the role of world banker by giving others the role of world workshop. we are moving towards a world where the big emerging players today are able to be both bank and workshop, countries that will be called upon to face the challenges, including social and environmental, that this world will deliver to them, which will not be indifferent to us. our competitiveness, our ability to grow, to protect jobs and security at the same time, depends to a large extent on the adaptability of our small and mediumsized enterprises. smes can benefit greatly from a new trade policy, but to do so they must be strengthened, they must be able to present themselves as consortia on global markets, they must be able to act together to open up new markets and meet growing demands, including in sectors requiring large volumes that we have not been able to meet in the past. they must be supported when they have to defend themselves in the courts of third countries because their patents and trademarks are infringed. europe and the member states have undoubtedly done a great deal, but the fragmentation of powers and the excessive distribution of resources in many countries have so far prevented effective international action by the community, especially, i repeat, in the face of the enterprise of the world's great competitors. this is where our attention and our efforts must be focused.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i remember a meeting in uzbekistan a few years ago with an italian entrepreneur who was trying to sign contracts to sell the shoes he was making in a little more than a handmade workshop without knowing russian or uzbek. and he did! this is a rather unusual example, because, after all, we are on the one hand pillars of an international economy, such as the european union, and on the other hand we have 90% of our turnover, of our turnover, created by small and mediumsized enterprises, of which only 15% exports outside the european union and only 30% trade outside their home country. we have a contradiction which indicates a profound weakness! the concept of small and medium-sized enterprises also includes reactive capacity and flexibility, as this italian entrepreneur in uzbekistan demonstrated, which are very suitable for internationalisation. however, much of this potential is being wasted, the opportunities offered by markets, consumer goods and new light technologies that we could use in public procurement are not being used - albeit with some reservations, because i believe that the public procurement sector remains the most hostile to encouraging the internationalisation of smes. unfortunately - and this is the reason for this discussion - the tools available to smes are clearly not suited to their needs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this is why we are asking the commission to undertake a thorough review of the measures to promote the internationalisation of smes, but also to set a specific objective. let us set ourselves a target, a target, such as doubling the rate of internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises within 10 years, and we will use this as a yardstick for measuring the effectiveness of new policies. that said, we are also addressing small and mediumsized enterprises because internationalisation, beyond all the objective difficulties and the instruments that have so far been inadequate, is also a matter of culture, mentality, openness and updating. the survival of small and mediumsized enterprises, of millions of jobs and of the very identity of our union is at stake.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is true that globalisation has had an effect on small and mediumsized enterprises, and i would say that these effects have certainly been more negative than positive. this is largely due to the european union's vicious trade policy, which has completely abandoned the protection of the domestic economic and manufacturing sector in return for fantastic openings to services and large contracts in third countries. the data cited in the question are obvious: the benefits of international opening up, when they exist, fall exclusively on the large groups, while the problems remain for the smaller ones, who find themselves in double trouble, suffering from very strong and unfair competition at home, and unable to compete properly abroad. the european union could help small and mediumsized enterprises, but unfortunately not everyone seems to have the same views and sensitivities. in the next budget document which we are to adopt, the council has proposed cuts of over eur 70 million in the cip's entrepreneurship and innovation programme, the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, which also deals with the enterprise europe network and other instruments to support the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. i hope therefore that parliament will oppose this shortsighted choice of the council and will make its case for helping those who represent the real economic heart and added value of europe!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues mr seeber and mr skylakakis and i also thank commissioner hedegaard. i think we are here today discussing and reasoning to really try to achieve a strong european climate policy, capable of safeguarding economic development and the well-being of european citizens. international climate policies - as has been mentioned so far - have focused mainly on reducing co2 emissions, but it is important that this proposal highlights how we must also tackle the fight against other anthropogenic emissions that cause the formation of ground-level ozone, which affects climate change. a lot has been said and i think it's worth remembering: we are now able to do this at a very reasonable cost, we have the technology available, and although there is no doubt that co2 emissions are the main factor, and although there is no doubt that the other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are present in a much smaller percentage, there is no doubt that their potential is very high and that therefore we could really achieve significant and very important results in a few years, in a few industries. there are signs, as the commissioner has also mentioned in the united states, i have seen a study published in nature by the scientific agency of the us department of commerce, with which i find there are many points of contact in relation to the analysis made by my colleagues, and so i imagine that these may also be the things that will allow europe to present itself in durban with an even stronger, more concrete and more important position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, we in the northern league had argued at an unsuspecting time that the euro, as it had been introduced, would do more harm than good. it was known that the euro area was not an optimal monetary area and that a country hit by the crisis would have enormous difficulties in getting back on its feet, risking dragging others down as well. the european economies were not sufficiently integrated, that is to say, capable of absorbing a possible shock from a given country which, without even being able to use monetary leverage, now finds itself without a way out. rules were also made, then punctually broken, not for the first time. i would therefore like to see this failure acknowledged first and then we can also look for ways of overcoming it. we are in a situation which we certainly did not want, but which we are now prepared to face, taking on our responsibilities, starting with this package on new economic governance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, the crisis is economic and in many ways institutional. i think you can agree with this assessment. i think that is true because, for example, as you have already explained, what was agreed on 21 july was not quickly ratified, approved or implemented by many of the governments of the member states. i think it may be important then to take advantage of the state of the union to set out a clear agenda of what needs to be done, not just in the long term, but now, so that we can regain the proper confidence, the confidence we need to meet our needs. the italian delegation yesterday called for the subject of project bonds to be brought forward, not at the time of the financial perspective, but much earlier. i think the heart of this moment is to give substance to the commission's initiative and to make the commission appear as the one who leads the game rather than being the one who suffers from it. i think that in many ways everyone can agree with this position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is not new, it has been going on for some years. perhaps it is time to take a critical look at the policies pursued so far: did you always do everything right? have we always made proper assessments of the situation? did you take the right approach? the same european central bank which, as minister rostoski says, saved europe, has always done well, even when, fearing inflation, it raised interest rates? president barroso points to a problem, the speed of the markets and the slowness of policy, but is that the only problem? of course, if one thinks that we are still at the implementation of 21 july, this should at least suggest that the summits and their conclusions should be better prepared and organized, but politics will be increasingly slower than the markets. so the point is to look further ahead, to shift the emphasis to the fight against unemployment and development. this is the terrain that the european commission must choose, and today too in president barroso's speech there was more concrete talk about the deficit and less about indications of growth and development. the commission should look beyond its weakness and say that the priority is to combat unemployment and create jobs, redistribute wealth and public investment strategy, and change the rules of the new european stability pact!
in writing. the interconnectedness of our economies and the domino effect of the crisis show that the logic of nationalism does not bring any benefits, but rather causes serious damage. solidarity between the countries of the union must be accompanied by a sense of responsibility and compliance with the rules, which the states cannot and must not violate. but solidarity cannot and must not be one-sided, if you are part of a union, whose ideals and values are shared, which is committed to growth and development and which supports each other even in times of difficulty. we are pursuing the concept of a social market economy, but with a greater emphasis on the market and less on the social aspect. we have weakened the stability and growth pact. it was a mistake, and we're paying the price. we must return to the rules of budgetary discipline and the procedures must be automatic. it is good to insert in the constitutions the principle of balanced budgets, but this must be achieved by combining austerity and the consolidation of public finances with growth. because if we are to enforce strict rules on our public budgets, we must at the same time implement measures for growth, otherwise europe as a whole will not survive in a global context.
acting president of the council. - mr. speaker, the house! at today's sitting of the european parliament, i have the honour to present to you the position adopted by the council on 25 july on the draft budget for 2012. for the second time, the budget is being adopted under the lisbon treaty procedure and i hope that we will use the lessons we learned during the 2011 budget debate. the development of a satisfactory agreement on the 2012 budget will require an open and constructive dialogue between our two institutions. i hope in particular that we will be able to avoid any reference to matters which are not directly related to the annual budget. mr. speaker, the house of lords! i was particularly pleased to note that the first round of trilateral budgetary talks on 11 july was conducted in an atmosphere of fruitful cooperation. i hope that this positive atmosphere will continue to prevail and help us to adopt a realistic and balanced budget for 2012. i should now like to outline the four main elements which the council has followed in its analysis of the draft budget presented by the commission. this is a philosophy that was developed during the discussion of the draft budget by the finance ministers and it reflects the way in which certain expenditure has been assessed and approached by the european commission. i hope that this will help you to understand the council's position better than just the figures for the expenditure in the various headings. first, the growth of the european union budget must reflect the situation in member states which are experiencing a period of weak economic growth and which are facing severe budgetary constraints. particular attention should be paid to controlling administrative expenditure so that our actions are in line with member states' efforts in this respect at national level. secondly, the european union budget should give priority to programmes and actions that help to overcome the current crisis, promote competitiveness and convergence, bring real eu added value, create employment opportunities and accelerate economic growth. thirdly, the increase in commitment and payment appropriations must be realistic. we should take account above all of current and future budgetary execution indicators as well as of absorption capacity, in order to avoid any overestimation which would only put unnecessary pressure on national budgets and increase outstanding commitments. fourthly, the budget should respect the current ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. the budget should also be flexible with appropriate margins to respond to unforeseen situations or to take account of new political priorities during the financial year. in this context, i am pleased to inform you that the council's position on the 2012 draft budget provides for an increase of 2,9% in commitment appropriations and 2,02% in payment appropriations compared to the 2011 budget. i am convinced that such a budget will strike the right balance between fiscal consolidation on the one hand and support for those european union programmes and projects which can most effectively contribute to the recovery of the union's economy on the other. it is also sufficient to meet the financial commitments arising from current and planned programmes and actions. i therefore believe that we are in a strong position to explain and justify such a budget to our citizens who have been affected by the economic and financial crisis, and in particular by the far-reaching fiscal consolidation efforts in the member states. the council agreed to targeted reductions in a number of specific budget lines across all headings. these reductions were based on a detailed analysis of the budget execution in previous years, but also took into account the most recent budget forecasts. i think these reductions are entirely justified. in addition, the information available in the commission's mission statements was used to assess the actual capacity of the commission and the member states to implement programmes and actions in time and to use the relevant funds during the financial year. particular attention was paid to administrative expenditure and the level of employment in the institutions. this includes administrative expenditure relating to operational programmes and executive agencies, as well as appropriations paid from the budget of the european union to decentralised agencies. the council considers that, in line with the direction of action taken at national level, the efficiency of the administration should be improved. the additional measures and staff plans, both for the european union institutions and for decentralised agencies, were approved only for new entities and entities with new tasks. the council's position, which is based on a clear methodology and an objective approach, is therefore a balanced, fair and just solution. finally, i would like to stress the point i raised at the very beginning of my speech, namely the need to strike the right balance between taking account of the difficult economic situation in which the member states find themselves and ensuring sufficient budgetary resources to support in particular those programmes and activities which can generate economic growth. i am convinced that the 2012 budget, at the level proposed by the council, will enable the european union to meet its obligations and will also send a signal to european taxpayers that we are acting responsibly and in the interests of those we represent. i would also like to add that when the council adopted this draft budget it also made a commitment, a declaration, that if in the course of the 2012 financial year there were no appropriations in any of the headings and no transfers could be made, then additional appropriations would be guaranteed by the member states on the initiative of the european commission.
member of the commission. − mr president, our budgetary trialogue in july was the first opportunity to react to the council’s position. developments in the summer confirmed that these are very difficult times. it is even more important, therefore, to strike a balance between budgetary self-restraint and necessary investment. the european budget should be seen as supplementing national efforts to reinforce investment in growth and jobs. that has determined the structure of the draft budget proposed by the commission. to avoid falling into a deflationary vicious circle, we must use all the instruments we have at our disposal. the european budget is one of them. so our budget proposals target increases in the area of competitiveness and cohesion as well as the phasing-in of agricultural payments – which, of course, is obligatory. the other budget headings came in below inflation, however, with clear self-restraint in administration. the council has decided to cut payments by eur 3.7 billion and adjust the increase of the payment level to the 2011 inflation rate forecast. at the present time, i cannot agree that this is the right way to strike a balance between smart investment and self-restraint in this time of austerity, especially when it comes to the eur 1 billion cut in the area of competitiveness, which is conducive to growth and jobs. i cannot reassure the two arms of the budgetary authority that what is in the cohesion budget after the council reading is enough, as our proposal was eur 18 billion below the forecast from the member states. the same member states are now cutting the figures that they were proposing, and on which our draft proposal was based. i must point out that we have outstanding commitments. we are proposing to raise the co-financing rate of the structural funds to 95% in order to help six member states that need to be helped at the present time. therefore, the inflation rate cannot be seen as the only parameter that needs to be taken into account when framing the budget. i will deal only briefly with the other aspects of the council proposals. with regard to the heading ‘europe as a global player’, we acknowledge that the neighbourhood proposals have been taken into account, but at the expense of pre-accession assistance and development aid. having seen the humanitarian consequences of the drought in the horn of africa, i am not in favour of cutting development aid to the poorest parts of the world. under heading 3a we have cuts in the european return fund, frontex and the external borders fund, although we clearly need much more budgetary funding to underpin immigration policy. the further cuts to the administration budget fail to acknowledge or assist the commission’s efforts to freeze its administrative budget. this will not help us to persuade our administration to exercise self restraint. i acknowledge the very focused, positive approach of parliament’s committee on budgets. our role now is to provide updated information in the expectation of compromise over the 2012 budget. we promise to provide updated information and monitor trends in budgetary payments so as to provide realistic data as a basis of conciliation. this would make a valuable contribution to the achievement of a timely, reasonable budget in response to all the challenges with which we are currently confronted.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the reading by the council last july, the institutions involved in the budgetary procedure, the commission, the council and parliament, expressed their position. the council and the commission with their numbers, parliament with its priorities. these are apparently very different positions, often distant, i am thinking above all of payments, research funding, but there are also points of contact and it is on these points of proximity that we will have to work a lot to arrive at a common position. parliament has a very difficult task, which is to look also to the future, to be proactive and this is the most difficult aspect of elected institutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this year, therefore, the budget will have to be a delicate balancing point between opposing forces: we're not just going to hold onto the present, but keep looking to the future and start building it now. this parliament will be making a strong demand for funding for the 2020 strategy, starting with quality employment, but there are also new skills, some of which are delicate; i am thinking of the new powers that the treaty of lisbon gives us, the european financial instruments and markets authority, and then there is the level of payments, which will have to be adjusted from the start, from the moment the budget is adopted, and then there are the undeniable emergencies, i am thinking of the migratory pressures in north africa. what we will continue to do consistently and transparently with respect to the documents on priorities which we have already voted on is therefore to continue to research and to build concrete instruments which will enable us to implement our policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the european globalisation adjustment fund, i feel it is my duty to express my concern about the council's preliminary approach to the european commission's proposal to extend the coverage of this fund until 2013 because of the economic crisis. i regard as irresponsible the obstructionist attitude of some delegations in the council, including the dutch delegation, which are seeking to create a blocking minority by opposing this important derogation and at the same time, as is the case today, are benefiting from egf funds worth several million euros, citing precisely the same causes of the economic crisis. a substantial recovery in european labour market conditions is not expected before 2013 and this assessment leads us to make this extension necessary. it would therefore be a grave mistake to undermine this fund, which public opinion sees as one of the few instruments of concrete solidarity of the union precisely because of the economic crisis.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group expresses its condolences and solidarity with the attack on the norwegian people and humanity. an act without any justification, because no idea, no motivation can be invoked to support a massacre. our values of freedom and democracy will also ensure that, in the face of this heinous episode, we do not depart from the principles on which our coexistence and relations between peoples are based.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate the honourable member on his work. it is important to define a legislative framework for the wholesale electricity and gas market. the european union is based on the principle of a free, transparent and barrier-free market, in the full interest of protecting consumers and micro-enterprises as final beneficiaries. unfair behaviour is known to have a severe impact on prices, which is why it is right to prohibit market abuse in the form of insider trading, insider trading or market manipulation. i also welcome the proposal to set up an agency for cooperation with national authorities as a key body for monitoring market operations and the intention to set up a european register of market operators.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gas and energy market is one of the instruments of economic growth and employment, which is essential to restore the union's competitiveness and to help it overcome the crisis quickly. it is therefore necessary to prevent abuses and avoid market manipulation, the control and sanctioning of which is entrusted to national competence, together with the prohibition of insider trading. the recent introduction of acer allows market transactions to be monitored, and national and european registers for operators in the sector allow transactions in wholesale energy products to be recorded, thus promoting transparency. today's vote, the result of close cooperation between the polish presidency, the commission and parliament, has laid the foundations for a more transparent market to protect consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is the task of public authorities to legislate in the interests of citizens in order to achieve many objectives: ensuring a fair and competitive market, protecting health, providing safety, stimulating innovation and protecting the environment. it is the responsibility of the member states to transpose european union legislation in a timely and correct manner, for the benefit of the citizens, but unfortunately there are still a large number of infringements, particularly in the area of recognition of professional qualifications, services and public procurement, and therefore many petitions have been lodged denouncing non-compliance with community rules. the eu-pilot project, which has been in operation since 2008, has therefore been useful in that it has reduced the time taken to examine infringements and, for those countries that have made themselves available to collaborate and participate in this project, has avoided the need for infringement procedures and financial penalties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption of this report, which is intended to implement one of the fundamental objectives of the lisbon treaty, namely to create a new institutional framework for the transparency of the european institutions. in order to build an open, efficient and independent european administration, it is essential to guarantee a certain right of access for european citizens to documents of the community institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. we consider transparency to be an essential element of participatory democracy, complementary to the representative democracy on which the functioning of the union is based, since it allows citizens to take part in the decision-making process and to exercise public control, thus ensuring the legitimacy of the democratic political system. we cannot remain indifferent to our citizens' calls for greater democracy, for greater transparency and openness of institutions and political actors and for a more determined and precise fight against corruption!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the measure we have supported and approved today represents a decisive step forward in terms of the accessibility of the institutions' documents, a further reason for ensuring transparency in the institutions' documents, but also a reason for striking a fair balance between the right to access to documents and the right to privacy, which must in any case be guaranteed in respect of facts and situations that have nothing to do with the need for proper participation in the decisionmaking process of the institutions. the use of community funds can be better guaranteed by means of a process of knowledge which is more significant than in the past, the refusal must always be justified, a step forward in the training of staff and accessibility to documents which also represents a moment of justice for the european citizen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has always defended and encouraged multilateralism, especially within the wto, which is the guarantor of economic governance and the regulated liberalization of the world market. i hope that the difficulties encountered this year, the differences arising from the contents of the package to be presented next december, will be resolved, or at least that there will be consensus on specific issues contained in it. there are important issues such as services, the protection of intellectual property and, in particular, the increased protection of geographical indications, trade facilitation and non-tariff barriers. i hope, however, that the negotiations on the doha agenda will not be concluded hastily, thus sacrificing all those requests which have not found a common ground over the years. we need a stronger and more dynamic multilateralism than we have today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost ten years since the doha negotiations began, we will be celebrating their tenth anniversary in two months' time, and they have still not led to any conclusion. the world has changed dramatically. countries that were considered developing in the meantime have become emerging countries, and today those countries are even emerging to the point where they can present themselves as the saviours of the european union or some of its states. the rules of world trade must be rewritten, and trade remains a tremendous source of potential for the advantages of growth and for a better distribution of wealth in the world and for the rebalancing of the north and south of the world. all this has remained unchanged in the multilateral framework, but we also need the possibility of a new reciprocity between countries and we also need to initiate and contribute to a new process of democratization of the world trade organization which, as it stands, cannot work well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on doha: not only is there no agreement, but it is now obsolete, and it is a failure. we call on europe to take a strong stand - as our parliament did in the last legislature - and for structural changes to the wto. the economic crisis, which is worldwide, cannot wait any longer for a doha agreement which has been a pain for us for 10 years and which we know will never be accepted by many countries. we therefore ask the parliament, the commission and the council to be more firm in their demand for a follow-up to what parliament established in the last legislature, a new functioning of the wto, structural reform, a real step forward to enable the internationalisation of smes and the relaunch of the economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon introduced a number of new features, among which i think the protocol on the role of national parliaments deserves greater attention. the protocol calls on national parliaments to play an active role in defending the principle of subsidiarity during the legislative process. i voted in favour of this report, but i would like to stress that very little has been done so far. the application of this protocol would give our citizens an answer, even if only partial, to their need for democratic legitimacy, and would put an end to the feeling of distance which accompanies the european institutions. i believe that such a need felt so strongly by our citizens deserves more attention, and i therefore hope that further measures will be taken as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the single market, free movement, the treaty of lisbon - these are all things that have come into play without any change in our way of legislating, the european way and the national way. the commitments made on these occasions must be followed up, and in particular a genuine simplification of the legislative system must be initiated, a simplification which must lead to a different dialogue between europe and the individual states. i would start with our own documents - and i take advantage of that to suggest a sort of clarity test on our documents - when we make a white paper, a green paper, everything must be more understandable and i would go so far as to say that the real, perhaps strategic, proposal for our europe to really start this virtuous phase of initiating legislation is to allocate a specific delegation to a european commissioner who is specifically concerned with clarifying legislation and the relations between the states and europe itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has confirmed the right to petition the european parliament as a fundamental element of european citizenship. it is therefore a key tool for citizens to bring to parliament their concerns about the impact of different eu policies and legislation on their daily lives. however, an analysis of the various statistics shows that most petitions were declared inadmissible because the signatories continue to confuse national competences with those of the european union. this shows how much more effort is needed to better inform citizens about the meaning of the right to petition. we also want to stress once again the need for a european 'one-stop shop' for citizens to advise them when they are looking for solutions to what they consider to be violations of their rights. we believe that this is an extremely important objective to be achieved in a very short time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot but agree with the text of this report. mr meyer rightly stressed the need for a european single window. the construction of these offices remains the most important objective yet to be achieved. however, it is clear from the statistics in the reports that there is a major problem of misinformation at european level, not only in relation to citizens' right to petition, but also in relation to so-called informal mechanisms. for example, solvit has been shown to work well, quickly and effectively, but this has not changed the fact that our citizens use this service only marginally. i wonder if it would not be more appropriate to organise a european-wide media campaign on these issues instead of simply improving the parliament's website, an important communication tool, but which does not yet reach all citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to adequate housing is guaranteed in a number of international human rights treaties, including article 34 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i believe that the lack of housing is a direct injury to the physical and moral integrity of a citizen, since the right to housing is a fundamental human right and the starting point for the enjoyment of all other social rights. on this basis, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on a european strategy for the homeless, which is also an objective of the europe 2020 strategy, which provides for the use of the erdf to finance social housing. last but not least, we must promote quality services and develop volunteering to support the homeless.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report on the european globalisation adjustment fund. the provisions contained in the document are intended to protect workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the mechanisms put in place in international markets by the phenomenon of globalisation and are therefore fully compatible. my vote was therefore in favour.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my vote in favour of the report. as already underlined, i share the rapporteur's pleasure in noting that for the first time in the 2011 budget there are autonomous funds for the egf and that it is therefore not dependent on funds not used in other areas. there is no criticism of the application for the austrian company.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for austria because i consider it a valuable instrument to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. in a time of economic crisis such as the one we are in now, the egf can be a valuable instrument of help, not only for workers in difficulty. today's vote was on a request from austria concerning 167 workers, 74 of whom were eligible for assistance from the fund, at the printed circuit board manufacturer at&s in the district of leoben (eastern upper styria). the total amount mobilised is eur 1 221 128.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the text presented by the honourable member.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 june 2011 the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this application, the seventh under the 2011 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 221 128. it concerns 167 redundancies, 74 of which were admitted to assistance, at at&s, a printed circuit board (pcb) manufacturer located in eastern upper styria, during the four-month reference period from 1 september to 31 december 2009. following its evaluation, the committee on employment and social affairs delivered a favourable opinion, confirming the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this report, the commission services have given a positive assessment to the request for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, a community instrument to help those who have lost their jobs as a result of competition caused by the distortive dynamics of globalisation. there are no impediments or breaches in the request received by the european commission and the criteria required to initiate the procedure for mobilising the fund are met. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 march 2010 austria submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 54 enterprises operating in nace revision 2, division 24 (metallurgical activities) in the two neighbouring nuts ii regions of syria (steiermark, at22) and lower austria (niederösterreich, at12). following further information, we have today mobilised the european globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 8 284 908. as has been mentioned several times here, since 2006 the egf has provided concrete assistance to european workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to help them reintegrate into the labour market. i believe that this is practical and indispensable help in a crisis situation such as the present one, in which europe cannot and must not give up its support for unemployed workers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 june 2011 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for austria. this application, the sixth under the 2011 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 8 284 908 for austria. the application concerns 1 180 redundancies in 54 firms. following its evaluation, the committee on employment and social affairs delivered a favourable opinion, confirming the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken negatively about this report. although the purpose of the document is certainly acceptable, the approximation with which the accounting information has been presented is not acceptable, since it is not very accurate. i therefore do not think it is appropriate to approve the document as it stands. my vote is therefore against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have always been in favour of the egf in principle. in this report, however, i found that the accounting information was too vague and that the estimated figure for technical assistance was too large. that's why i'm voting no.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this report, the commission services have given a positive assessment to the request for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, a community instrument to help those who have lost their jobs as a result of competition caused by the distortive dynamics of globalisation. the request concerns workers from more than 50 companies in the south of the netherlands, for a total of 800 workers who have been made redundant. the criteria for mobilising the fund have been positively assessed by the commission. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my vote in favour of the report. i agree with the rapporteur that it is a pleasure to note that for the first time in the 2011 budget there are autonomous funds for the egf and that it is therefore not dependent on funds not used in other areas. there is no criticism of the specific issue of dutch employees.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because i believe that this instrument represents a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the request from the netherlands concerns the mobilisation of the egf in respect of redundancies in 52 enterprises active in the activities classified under nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction on recorded media') in the nuts ii regions of south holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31) for an amount of eur 2 649 148. here again, europe is helping workers made redundant as a result of the crisis to reintegrate into the labour market. today's vote shows that it can effectively help us in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this report, the commission services have given a positive assessment to the request for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, a community instrument to help those who have lost their jobs as a result of competition caused by the distortive dynamics of globalisation. the request concerns workers from more than 14 enterprises in the dutch region of brabant, for a total of 199 workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because i consider this instrument to be a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. on 20 december 2010, the netherlands submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 14 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region noord-brabant (nl41) in the netherlands. today's vote has cleared the way for the mobilisation of eur 667 823. i would like to conclude by saying that through this important instrument we are now able to give some concrete answers and help workers who are unemployed because of globalisation and the economic crisis, not only by trying to repair the disadvantages they have suffered but also by reintegrating them into the world of work.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this report, the commission services have given a positive assessment to the request for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, a community instrument to help those who have lost their jobs as a result of competition caused by the distortive dynamics of globalisation. there are no critical elements in the dossier received from the community authorities concerning more than 200 redundancies in nine farms in the dutch region of overijssel, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support for workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. the netherlands submitted an application on 20 december 2010 to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 9 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21) and provided additional information up to 7 march 2011. the vote today authorises the appropriation of eur 718.140.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands. as colleagues recalled, this fund has been active since 2006 and has since then helped to provide concrete support to workers made redundant due to globalisation and the economic crisis, in order to ensure their reintegration into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support in respect of redundancies in 26 undertakings in division 18 (printing and reproduction on recorded media) the application was found to be in line with the requirements for determining such financial contributions and i am therefore in favour of authorising the mobilisation of the fund for an amount of eur 1 849 086.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion today is of particular importance because it concerns the establishment of a legal framework of union scope which establishes new rules for the prevention of abusive practices such as the use of inside information and market manipulation in the gas and electricity energy sector. i share the objective of strengthening the regulatory framework governing the market for energy products in europe, with a view to moving towards regulatory harmonisation aimed at achieving the internal energy market. however, such a legislative initiative must avoid introducing an administrative regime which would be excessively burdensome in terms of systematic reporting of commercial transactions. while i believe that both the structure of the proposal for a regulation and the mechanisms suggested for its application are valid, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to provide the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators with the appropriate financial and human resources to enable it to open contact points close to the main trading places. i also hope that effective coordination between this european agency and the national regulatory authorities will be ensured, which will ensure an appropriate balance of power. finally, i welcome the strengthening of the protection of sensitive commercial data which is regularly transmitted to the competent authorities.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this proposal on the prevention of abuse and manipulation of the energy market. the document recognises that consumers and small businesses are the most vulnerable to price manipulation of products such as gas and electricity and aims to protect the interests of these categories directly by setting up a specific framework for monitoring the market and sanctioning any infringements. in view of the attention paid to the protection of consumers and small businesses in the proposal, i can only express a positive opinion of the document.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the chatzimarkakis report on the integrity and transparency of the energy market because i believe that these are fundamental principles in any liberal economy which wishes to take due account of the interests of operators. it is important to this end that prices reflect the fair interaction between supply and demand. markets are increasingly interconnected and abuses in one member state could have an impact on wholesale energy and gas prices across national borders. i agree with the choice to prohibit the use of inside information to make manipulated purchases which artificially place prices at a level not justified by actual availability and production costs. i am confident that the monitoring by the agency for cooperation between national energy regulators, national energy and financial supervisory authorities and competition authorities will prove to be an appropriate and effective measure in combating abuses and infringements and that the sanctions to be defined by the member states will be appropriate.
in writing. - i fully agree with the objectives set by the regulation. to speak of integrity and transparency is to set up a necessary, though not entirely sufficient, condition for the growth of collective well-being. this is a subject on which improvisation is not possible. the reference to the prohibition of abuse in the wholesale markets for electricity and related products, for example, shows how important it is to organise ourselves and to go in the direction we have set ourselves when we chose our policies in the energy sector. at the same time, the findings must not be hampered by events beyond our control or by unforeseen inefficiencies in the monitoring. for this reason i also welcomed the acceptance of the priorities identified by the commission and the reference to the introduction of mechanisms allowing access to information received on transactions in wholesale energy markets by other competent authorities as i believe that they are crucial to optimising the market. it is crucial, given its strategic importance in the long term, to choose to work alongside other european bodies in order to monitor economic operators more efficiently, in pursuit of our general interests.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, 'integrity and transparency of the energy market': the title of the proposal for a regulation already shows its content, a regulation which synthesises and unifies all existing legislation concerning trade in energy raw materials in any existing market. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation in the hope that speculation in energy on the stock markets and the lack of transparency in energy trading could be avoided by the entry into force of specific rules contained in the regulation in question. the transparency and efficiency of the markets and control bodies must be guaranteed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr chatzimarkakis on his excellent work. we have today adopted new rules to prevent abuse in the wholesale energy market and thus protect final consumers. the european wholesale energy market will be monitored by an independent agency to enable national governments to prevent or punish behaviour which is contrary to free competition. energy must remain within everyone's reach. we want prices to be transparent to consumers, but unfortunately there are many hidden elements that are paid for, in the end, by consumers through too high final prices, and this has a very negative impact on growth and employment. europe needs more transparency in the energy market, which must be protected from abuse: that is the purpose of this regulation. i therefore welcome these new measures which ensure transparency and prevent abuse in the wholesale energy market by ensuring fair prices and free competition.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is the right way forward to establish a legal framework for the whole of the european union which will prevent abuse and market manipulation in the energy sector, especially in the gas and electricity sectors. a sector-specific approach is needed to prevent unfair practices in wholesale energy markets from manipulating price levels, making them highly volatile and undermining the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the regulation establishing a legal framework at european union level for the prevention of abuse and manipulation of the energy market. it is necessary to ensure that prices set on wholesale energy markets reflect a fair and competitive interaction between supply and demand and that it is not possible to profit from market abuse, which often affects both wholesale electricity and gas prices across national borders and retail prices for consumers and micro-enterprises. the need to ensure proper monitoring and adequate transparency of energy markets is one of the objectives alongside which the idea shared by president buzek of creating a single energy market, aimed at sanctioning countries which do not comply with the rules of transparency and which present themselves as unfair competitors, should be developed and put into practice.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the integrity and transparency of wholesale energy markets. this is a very sensitive issue, since wholesale prices also determine the cost of energy for households and our businesses. citizens, businesses and authorities need to have confidence in the transparency of wholesale energy markets. the aim is to strengthen the regulatory framework governing the market in energy products in europe with a view to regulatory harmonisation aimed at achieving the internal energy market. businesses in particular are relying on this new regulation in the hope that they will be able to respond more flexibly to changing market conditions by supporting the new generation and infrastructure investments needed to transform europe's energy supply. if it fails, it risks discouraging investment, increasing the volatility of energy prices. in my country, italy, for example, the liberalisation of the energy market is moving at two speeds: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market for electricity is open to competition. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the common agricultural policy. i therefore believe that effective coordination between the national regulatory authorities and the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should be ensured.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to define the common energy market in order to ensure greater transparency, to avoid abuses of dominant positions and, consequently, to prevent speculation which is harmful to european markets: this is what is called for in the chatzimarkakis report on the integrity and transparency of the energy market, which i have supported. the final text, the result of lengthy negotiations, aims in particular to avoid possible 'manipulation' of markets and toughen the sanctions against those who do not comply with the rules laid down. the emphasis on the role of the european regulatory agency in monitoring and controlling markets is also to be welcomed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in the plenary we voted on the report entitled '27th annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law'. the report by mrs lichtenberger calls on the commission to propose a 'procedural code', in the form of a regulation under the new legal basis provided by article 298 tfeu, to strengthen respect for citizens' rights and ensure transparency. the 'procedure code' will in no way limit the commission's discretion but will merely ensure that, in the exercise of its powers, the commission respects the principles of 'an open, efficient and independent administration' within the meaning of article 298 tfeu and article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is an exhaustive assessment of the effectiveness of the commission's monitoring of the application of eu law in 2009. europe can only be brought closer to its citizens by adopting good governance techniques, but also by means of appropriate infringement procedures. one of the areas of direct interaction between europe and its citizens is precisely the administrative phase of article 258 tfeu, where citizens turn directly to the commission and parliament to assert their european rights.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the lichtenberger report, which assesses the european commission's control of the application of eu law and the consequent power/duty to initiate an infringement procedure against a member state which has failed to comply with the treaty. the text therefore calls on the commission to propose a code of procedure to ensure greater respect for the rights of european citizens. at the same time, it is desirable to increase cooperation between the community institutions and national parliaments, especially in the implementation of community legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that transparency is the best way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement. for this reason, the eu must provide a model of institutional transparency and modern democracy for the member states as well as for third countries. it is important to bear in mind that with the lisbon treaty transparency became a legally binding fundamental right of the citizen, and that the need for transparency is not limited to legislative procedures, but also covers the non-legislative work of eu bodies, offices and agencies. the first step is for the eu institutions to make as many categories of document as possible publicly accessible by default on their internet sites, including budgets and lists of public procurement contracts awarded over the last three years.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs sargentini's report, which provides an annual review of the application of the regulation on public access to documents of the community institutions. this gives community citizens a fuller picture of the work of parliament, the commission and the council, and enables them to understand better the reality of the institutions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an amendment to parliament's rules of procedure is intended to ensure that parliament itself evaluates the commission correctly, by means of more effective monitoring procedures. i fully agree with the proposal itself, which states that the correct assessment by the commission is vital to improving the governance standards of the eu itself, and i believe that maximum transparency and mutual supervision between the institutions are essential to this end. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text adopted today aims to change the current procedure for hearing commissioners-designate. in particular, the report proposes that for each commissioner-designate there should be two joint questions from the conference of committee chairmen, the first on general competence, european commitment and personal independence and the second on portfolio management and cooperation with parliament. the committee responsible should be asked to put forward three additional questions. in the case of joint committees, each committee would be entitled to put forward two questions. after the hearing, the chair and the coordinators should meet to evaluate the individual commissioners-designate. after these closed-door meetings, the coordinators should express their opinion on the commissioners-designate.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic cooperation, including trade, is one of the instruments through which foreign policy is conducted. the european union, for its part, has as its original founding rationale sectoral trade first and the wider single market second. this is a fundamental reason for the absence of a unified, far-reaching, strong and authoritative foreign policy, which would also allow the definition of strategic positions in economic cooperation with other states and geopolitical areas. this situation allows each member country to act autonomously and without coordination, both on its own and within the various international organisations to which it belongs. in order to make the doha negotiations a useful outcome, and to renew the usefulness of the world trade organisation as a forum for solving the problems of equitable development and cohesion among all the associated countries, action must be taken to promote the integration of other countries into long-term policies, by exploiting their competitive advantages on the one hand and strengthening their effective capacity to determine their own development on the other. i believe that the report we have adopted supports this view, albeit modestly.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it shows the utmost commitment of all the institutions to supporting a multilateral trading system in which the world trade organisation is the guarantor of a trading system governed by appropriate measures. the organisation plays a key role in ensuring that globalisation is better managed, that the benefits of globalisation are more equitably distributed and that economic growth is more balanced. a fair and proper conclusion to the doha negotiations would therefore be an important signal of political confidence in the future of a fair world trading system based on shared rules.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eighth wto ministerial conference will be held in geneva next december. what can we expect from this new negotiation? it will be difficult to wait for a new effort by the developed countries to make further concessions in terms of preferential tariffs. the eu's competitiveness margins are very tight and therefore require some flexibility in the use of export refunds, especially in certain sectors such as cereals, meat, dairy products and wine. our farmers are competing in a market distorted by subsidies, with low world prices, with very strict european quality standards. the doha negotiations will focus, among other things, on the attempt to achieve food security - a subject which is well known to us in the committee on agriculture and on which i would like to stress the need for coherent action and the urgency of the subject. i welcome this new attempt at agreement, but i look forward to seeing tangible results from these negotiations. i hope that in the course of these new negotiations the difficulties faced by our farmers will be taken into account. i would like to conclude by quoting the director-general of the wto, pascal lamy: the more economically developed countries now expect the major emerging economies to compete on equal terms.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a programme to reduce the administrative burden resulting from european union legislation has been in operation since 2005 with the aim of reducing this expenditure by 25% by 2012, thus generating an increase of 1.4% of gross domestic product. my support for mr karim's report is in the direction of speeding up this process of reducing burdens and simplifying administration without, however, compromising the quality standards that must necessarily be part of the legislative process. the work of the institutions must be simplified and our work must be made clear to the european citizens, who must have easy access to eu databases and legislative acts. greater use of white papers and exclusive use of regulations in legislative proposals are just some of the simple tools that could ensure smaller volumes of legislation without compromising the quality of the legislation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on better regulation, subsidiarity and proportionality and smart regulation because one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is precisely to make european legislation more effective and accessible in all european countries. the text therefore calls for the national parliaments of the member states to cooperate and to be involved in the development and application of the new european legislation, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and also for consultation with the community institutions. better regulation means achieving the objectives set, facilitating the economy by helping businesses and speeding up the european market by making it more competitive.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in the plenary we voted on the report entitled 'better regulation, subsidiarity and proportionality and smart regulation'. the report by mr sajjad karim further elaborates the presidency's conclusions on the lisbon strategy, with the aim of putting the emphasis on competitiveness and reducing administrative burdens through smart legislation at the service of the citizen. the report stresses in particular public consultations, impact assessments, comitology and simplification of existing legislation. the main recommendations of the report include: member states should be required to justify decisions to introduce requirements in their national legislation that go beyond the standards set in the eu legislative acts they are about to transpose. the european parliament, which has so far received over 300 documents from national parliaments, should give an opinion on the effective functioning of the systems set up within the parliament itself in order to identify any shortcomings and propose improvements.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because it stresses the importance of competitiveness and the reduction of administrative burdens through intelligent legislation, capable of bringing benefits to citizens and insisting in particular on public consultations, impact assessments, comitology and the simplification of existing legislation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr meyer's report, which has made a good point of the work of the peti committee over the past year. by highlighting the data on petitions received by parliament's services, the number, origin and legislative areas concerned by citizens' requests, and by assessing the degree and quality of interinstitutional relations between parliament, the commission and the council, as well as with the european ombudsman, the report provides a true picture of the state of the art in the use of this important tool, such as the petition to the european parliament, available to citizens.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr meyer on his excellent work. petitions must be a pillar of european citizenship. the protection of the environment and the defence of citizens' rights were the main concerns of the committee on petitions in 2010. i am disappointed that some member states have been negligent in applying and enforcing european environmental legislation and i ask the commission to monitor compliance and implementation of this legislation more vigorously at all stages of the procedure and not just after the adoption of a final decision. i also regret that, despite the large number of petitions submitted in relation to the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, the european commission consistently refuses to act to prevent flagrant violations in this area.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it is extremely comprehensive in providing an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010. the report provides a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee, illustrating a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, archived or examined relating to the countries concerned or the subjects dealt with, which constitute an important quantitative tool for evaluating the work of the committee.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my approval of mr meyer's text on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010. although slightly down on 2009, the peti committee collected petitions from european citizens who exercised their right to petition on topics of primary importance such as justice, the environment, the internal market, fundamental rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i value its aim to find a solution for one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation. homelessness has increased in recent years in several eu member states and is an unacceptable violation of human dignity. i believe that it is essential to involve all stakeholders, including national, regional and local policy-makers, in the fight against homelessness. considering that the fulfilment of the right to housing is critical for the enjoyment of a full range of other rights, including political and social rights, an important role should also be played by the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra). this agency needs to work more on the implications of extreme poverty and social exclusion in terms of access to, and enjoyment of, fundamental rights. member states must make progress towards the goal of ending street homelessness by 2015.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have spoken out against this motion for a resolution on an eu strategy for the homeless because of the many controversial points it raises, particularly on the issue of immigration. the document calls for the provision of housing to be made easier for marginalised groups such as immigrants themselves and states that the right to housing will also allow these groups to enjoy political and social rights. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this document because it calls on the member states to work towards the objective of solving the problem of homelessness by 2015. this will require the development of an integrated and ambitious european strategy, based on national and regional strategies and with the long-term objective of addressing the problem of homelessness in the wider context of social inclusion.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because it shows that european and international climate policies have focused mainly on reducing co2 emissions, but that a comprehensive european climate policy is needed which takes account of all sources of warming and all options for mitigating them.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stated that at a time when the economic crisis is reducing investment by firms and lower costs in third countries are encouraging the relocation of european industries, we cannot impose additional costs on our system. pollution is global and the commitment to reduce emissions cannot and must not be european only: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall therefore vote against the resolution as it is clearly contrary to the interests of our workers.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a communiqué of 5 october last, commissioners füle and malmström welcomed the good results of the dialogue with tripoli as part of a cooperation agenda which included the management of migration flows, border management, pan-african policy and international protection of refugees and asylum seekers. this ambitious agenda has been interrupted for reasons we know, by nato military intervention and regime change in tripoli. i think the first objective is to resume as soon as possible cooperation with libya on these big issues - border management, migration flows, energy supply and the fight against terrorism - but another point that is equally important is support for the new libyan leadership in organising free elections as the first act of a long process that can lead, i hope, one day to building a genuinely democratic and stable state. building a democracy is much harder than winning a war, especially if there is no memory of a previous democracy in the country. i wanted to know what concrete programmes could be put in place in the short term to intervene in civil society and especially in the fields of culture and education, which are the fundamental elements for building a true democracy in the minds and hearts of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although there are still pockets of resistance among the supporters of the old libyan regime and although, as long as gaddafi is in power, the national transitional council is still afraid of possible rear-end blows, it is right and proper to focus attention on the post-war challenges. the role of the european union in the process of reconstruction and stabilisation in libya is of considerable importance, beyond the immediate priorities. i am thinking of food, medicine, a plan for security, public order, border control and the very sensitive issue of the withdrawal of weapons. after the wartime phase of the crisis which has seen the european union disintegrated, it is fair to say that now is the time to strengthen europe's role with the necessary determination. we have not only a humanitarian task, although it is important - i am thinking of the many migrants in libya - we cannot fail to be present at the table which is redrawing the new geopolitical picture in the region, which today also marks a new protagonist, turkey, as we see in these hours with the triumphant visit of erdogan to several arab countries, just as we cannot delegate the effective management of the post-war phase to the group of countries which participated in the nato mission. already in the libyan theatre there are signs of a not so creeping competition between some member states that will not be good. in fact, in the race to a new libya, it is not difficult to see the economic and energy interests, but the project for the democratic construction of libya is not as clear, and this is where we need to work very hard. the european union's role is therefore important, not least because the road ahead will not be easy or short, and above all, we must be aware that the democratic outcome is by no means certain.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to a passage in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow in the house concerning libya, which takes note of president jalil's speech in tripoli announcing that libya wants to be a moderate muslim country with a constitution reflecting this state of affairs. i believe that this is a crucial aspect, not only for the future of libya, but also for the future of the whole scenario of the countries of the mediterranean area. tunisia and egypt will also have a new constitution. i ask you and i ask us as a parliament what we are doing to bring ourselves as interlocutors at this delicate stage when new constitutional charters will decide the way in which populations of millions of people live together, and i say this because the constitutional issue is extremely slippery and extremely complex. god is in the u.s. constitution and also in the sudanese constitution, but the result is not the same. god is not in the french constitution and he is not in the chinese constitution, but the result is not the same here either. it is not enough to announce or not to announce values or disvalues, we must understand how we build our future together. i therefore propose that there should be a mission of the european parliament, as a committee on constitutional affairs, and a mission of the european commission which does not want to tell the libyans how to write their own constitution, but simply repeats to the libyans the convictions, what we believe in and which is the basis of our constitutions and our understanding of democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after 42 years of dictatorship and six months of conflict, libya is at a turning point in its history which can open the way to a future of democracy, peace and development. this future is in the hands of the libyans and no one can think of imposing pre-packaged choices and solutions on them, but at the same time it is clear that the european union has a great responsibility, a decisive role to play in supporting the process of stabilisation and democratic transition in the country. after being marginalised by the divisions among its members in the initial phase of the conflict - a conflict whose wise management must be given to nato - the eu has progressively demonstrated a capacity for action which we appreciate and which has brought concrete results, with the opening of the office in benghazi, with the missions in tripoli, which we would like to see more coordinated, of the external action service and echo. this activism must now be part of a strong and credible political strategy, capable of defining a solid and effective multilateral framework, and of ensuring a real unity of purpose in the international community, avoiding duplication, avoiding competition and guaranteeing real support for the libyan transition. a transition that will inevitably be long and complex, which will have to aim at national reconciliation while avoiding the creation of new rifts of division within the country and at the same time will have to ensure progress and democracy, ensure the involvement of civil society and the renewal of the ruling classes. a transition in which the return to normalcy and the restoration of public order require urgently dealing with complex issues such as border control, the reconstruction of the judicial system and the security sector, the control of the proliferation of arms, but which at the same time will have to be based on a solid and credible democratic and constituent road map. all of this requires dialogue, commitment, leadership skills, and also intensive planning and resource identification. it is therefore an important test for the eu, for the european external action service, for its comprehensive approach, and the european parliament is ready to do its part and to provide its support for this commitment.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years many companies have been encouraged to invest in libya. the serious instability and political and institutional crisis in several north african countries, particularly egypt, libya and tunisia, have forced many european companies to leave libya, leaving behind loans, equipment, etc. council regulation (eu) no 204/2011 of 2 march 2011 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in libya provides that the funds may be used only for humanitarian purposes and not for the settlement of claims or losses suffered by companies/companies operating in libya. as a result, many european companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are having difficulty recovering claims arising from the supply of goods and services in libya. if europe is to provide support for the libyan people and help to rebuild the country, it must also prevent european companies from suffering serious and irreversible damage as a result of the loss of liquidity resulting from any failure to collect debts and thus ensure their survival.
madam president, i am happy to see that the whole parliament has a clear and strong position on the tragedy that is unfolding in syria. the s&d group has just tabled a joint motion for a resolution which reflects the deep concern of europe, the arab world and the rest of the planet over the continued brutal crackdown on peaceful protesters perpetrated by the al-assad regime. the figure of 2 600 has been quoted as the number of people whose lives have been destroyed by the brutality of the regime, but many more have been injured, tortured or detained. demonstrations and protests in syria are demanding the ousting of al-assad and his family and an end to the rule of the baa’th party. the same demand comes from the eu and the most important international actors. the protesters insist on the peaceful nature of their political movement but, in order to justify the atrocities against them, the syrian regime claims it is confronting religious extremists. this message is false and misleading. all indicators and information show that no extremists are leading the democratic protests in syria. we must reject the invitation of the al-assad regime to listen to them and to the other arab tyrannies on the spectre of mujahidism and similar threats. our support for the syrian democratic forces should continue and our revulsion towards the current regime’s course of action must continue to be total. just one final word about sanctions. sanctions by the international community should be maintained, but we should be very careful to keep in place smart sanctions: sanctions against individuals, against prominent members of the government and the al-assad circle of power. that approach works. they should be different from the sanctions of the past that strengthened authoritarian regimes instead of weakening them. i associate myself with the call by several colleagues for a ban on european companies which invest in energy and other sectors in syria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr nicolai, mr commissioner, i think there are three things we can be sure of: the first is the deep friendship with the palestinian people, a people who suffer, suffer every day, and you have to go to the occupied territories to see the daily suffering of the palestinians, and it is a people to whom the international community owes something. the second certainty is the bond that binds us to israel as europeans, a bond that is stronger than any other country probably outside the union, because israel is an indispensable part of europe's cultural and moral identity, it is part of our family. the third unfortunate fact is that europe is always divided or always very conservative in its positions, limits which are also apparent in this vote at the united nations, which will probably be another humiliating occasion after the absence of european policy as such in the libyan crisis, and yet it is up to us, mr minister, mr commissioner. the european citizens are finally demanding a qualitative leap forward, a position of the whole of europe, and i hope that, if possible, a position in favour of the declaration of independence will be adopted, as many israelis are also demanding against their government and as they are calling on the palestinians for a basic sense of justice. support for independence would be in line first of all with the reality of a palestine that exists, that exists in spite of everything, and that no one can erase from the maps, and whose identity is paradoxically being strengthened day by day in the national feeling due to the occupation. secondly, it would also strengthen israel's security and identity itself, security and identity which are better guaranteed by the existence of two divided states with certain borders, rather than by the prospect - and this should be asked of the israeli leaders in twenty years' time - of a single state shared by palestinians and israelis. finally, this declaration of independence would be a breakthrough in the stagnant waters of european diplomacy, in the negotiations which are going nowhere, it would be a breakthrough which, if we give up, condemns us to being, after the financial crisis, a periphery in international diplomacy as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is convinced of the desirability and necessity of creating two states living together in peace. the only difference of opinion is how to achieve these objectives. the intention of the palestinian authority to apply unilaterally to the united nations for recognition as a state is an initiative which in my view could damage the peace process and provoke a chain reaction in the middle east. the intention to isolate israel diplomatically and to make it look like an accomplished fact is evident, at a time when the peace agreements with egypt are being threatened by extremist positions and relations with turkey are in crisis. the attack on the israeli embassy in cairo is the latest in this chain. the palestinian unilateral initiative is contrary to the principle shared by both sides, according to which the only solution to the conflict is bilateral negotiations between both sides. unilateral recognition could therefore create further instability and remove the possibility of building a democratic palestinian state that lives in peace with israel. i therefore believe that we should return to the basic principles of the oslo agreements, based on mutual recognition, peaceful coexistence, security and political rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if arab dictators shoot at the crowds, there is an immediate reaction from the west, no-fly zones, un intervention, and so on. if the israeli air force is bombing gaza, there is silence, because it is natural that israel can bomb the palestinian people. yet the unresolved arab-palestinian conflict is the main cause of conflict between the arab world and the west and is giving strength to extremists. today, the arab revolutions have brought a new wave of democracy to north africa and the middle east, which cannot but affect the relationship between palestinians and israelis, and the very existence of israel is somehow linked to the understanding of this cause: either israel accepts the existence of a palestinian state, or israel will not be able to live under the same conditions in that region. in this context, i think it would be very hypocritical for europe not to show the palestinians the same solidarity that it is showing to those in the arab world, and in other places too, who are fighting for freedom and rights today, because i believe that the right of peoples to have their own territory, to self-determination, to be able to have their own state, is an inviolable right and i believe that europe must support the palestinian resolution at the un.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have studied the anti-corruption package presented by the commission in june with great attention and i must say that i am very impressed by the contents of this package: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good starting point and all the european institutions, especially the european parliament, must work to ensure that concrete and quantifiable results are achieved in a short time. corruption is today the main area of penetration of organised crime into the legal economy and the public sector; through corruption, criminal systems are created, dangerous connections between businessmen, politicians, public officials. the estimated damage from corruption in europe is estimated at about 120 billion; i would say that this is an underestimate, because in my country alone, in italy alone, this practice costs 60 billion euros a year, which is practically the amount of money that would save my country from defaulting at the moment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. what measures does the commission propose to improve the fight against corruption in the private sector? can you give us any details on how you intend to improve financial investigations? what measures does it propose to combat political corruption and what are the assessments of the review of the procurement directive to combat conflicts of interest and the proposal for a directive to regulate concessions? as mr albrecht has already said, this parliament, these institutions, have been dealing with equally important problems for a long time, such as terrorism. this directive, the one on corruption, gives ample space and visibility, and above all it gives us the opportunity to consider, to understand once and for all, how deeply rooted organized crime is in all 27 member states. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council and mr commissioner, i too would like to welcome, as have other members, the anti-corruption package which the european commission adopted on 6 june. corruption is a transnational phenomenon and measures at european level are needed to combat it. the vast majority of our european citizens, according to eurobarometer estimates, believe that europe must do more. how can you blame them? in many member states there is a lack of political will to fight corruption, and there are still european countries which have not signed the united nations convention against corruption. when we consider the devastating impact of corruption on democratic processes, citizens' rights and trust in the rule of law, it is clear that the national measures taken by member states to combat corruption to date are insufficient to contain the growing phenomenon. it is the european union which must give a united and strong response, especially now, in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis, which is weighing on people's lives, on the health of social security and welfare systems, on the ability of institutions to guarantee essential services. corruption causes a loss of €120 billion per year, equivalent to 1% of the eu's gdp, and robs the union and its member states of resources that could be used to provide basic services: education, childhood, employment, transport; it's a clean drain on the people's livelihood. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in particular, we cannot talk about fighting corruption if we are not able to adopt at least minimum standards for the definition of the crime of corruption, of which there is no trace in the package just launched. the same applies to the definition of uniform parameters to measure the extent of the phenomenon in the member states, which is essential to prepare an effective response. we are in favour, for example, of relaunching the eu's network of contact points against corruption, as i proposed in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i repeat what my colleagues have already said, and i am glad to do so because we all seem to agree that 120 billion euros are wasted every year in corruption, because they are a terrible burden on our economy, they are resources that are being taken from society, from citizens, from our businesses in an unacceptable and improper way. it is also dramatic that the survey and the eurobarometer data show that 8 out of 10 citizens are aware that corruption is indeed a serious problem that needs to be tackled more. the adoption of a european-wide anti-fraud and anti-corruption strategy, which strongly commits the member states to implement the anti-corruption package adopted by the commission last june, is therefore a priority, and i commend commissioner malmström for this. it is equally important that there should be cooperation between the member states, europol, eurojust and olaf, precisely so that there is really broad cooperation in prosecuting corruption-related crimes and restoring a high degree of transparency in financial transactions as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner malmström for raising the question of an anti-corruption package with such force, but i want to be very frank. those who, like me, live in a mafia territory and have paid and continue to pay a terrible price for this, are not among those who believe that a magic law is enough to finally eradicate corruption, which seems to be the problem, the emergency of today. corruption is a very old system, much older than the world itself, and it has probably become intrinsic to the way politics is conducted, not only in italy, but in many other countries. i was very pleased when the commissioner said that he was serious about politics. when we think about the fight against corruption, we have to start asking ourselves how public procurement is done, what is the threshold for discretion, whether or not there is a monitoring network, for example of who wins, how certain fortunes are accumulated, whether or not there are rules for tracing money, whether or not convicted politicians are actually convicted and imprisoned or whether they are in parliament, protected by their parties and the laws of their countries. we should start a revolution, so to speak, and then i would personally put the fight against corruption, against the mafia, against organised crime, at the centre of this second part-session debate, to tell the spanish indignados that we want a more beautiful, more free, more transparent europe, to tell the young people who are making the arab revolutions that we too want to change the world, and we want to change it seriously, so congratulations, commissioner, but let us do more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that this package is an important piece of legislation, but it must be implemented. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a package of measures to combat fraud and corruption, a package which must put a stop to this phenomenon, which is spreading rapidly and affects all the member states. we need more cooperation between the member states, but above all we need a reorganization of the procedures for public procurement, because if it is true, as it is true, that this is a private sector problem, there is no doubt that it is particularly a public sector problem. we must protect honest businessmen and citizens and punish those who fraudulently alter the rules of the market, the rules of the game. that is why we must protect the licit economy. strong sanctions, which must be appropriate and decisive, which must lead in the most significant cases to striking and, why not, innovative measures, which concern organized crime, i am referring in particular to confiscation and seizure. these are the concrete measures which will probably allow for the zero tolerance to which mrs malmström rightly referred.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in the horn of africa will not improve in the next four to six months. the situation is particularly serious in somalia, where the tragedy of famine is aggravated by the absence of a state, by the conflict between different tribes and by the presence of terrorist groups such as al-shabaab, which prevent access to aid by the population in need. only in somaliland is the situation much better, with an elected government, a level of governance that is good by the standards of the region and the absence of armed conflict between clans. the european union has allocated eur 160 million for all the countries affected, to which must be added bilateral aid from the member states totalling eur 700 million. the money is there for the emergency, but it's hard to use it to help the affected populations. the problem of somalia in particular is the same as always, namely that aid cannot be distributed to those who need it because it is often stolen by traffickers and criminal gangs directly at the ports of arrival and sold on the parallel market. it is almost impossible to deal with the emergency without ensuring the security of the territory, strengthening the military mission of the african union and adapting its technical capabilities to the situation it faces. aid is only effective if it reaches the people affected, and that is achieved by building a system of governance that is difficult to achieve after twenty years of war and anarchy in somalia. to prevent this kind of humanitarian catastrophe from happening again, we need a serious development cooperation policy, with clear and effective programmes, and with the local realities that are working, as in the case of somaliland, being put to good use. i would also like to conclude by saying that we must also strengthen a large civil protection structure, coordinated at european level and equipped with all the necessary means to intervene in a short time. (the president agreed to reply to a 'blue card' question within the meaning of rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with mr deva's remark. somaliland is a reality that we can consider paradoxical in africa, because it has had regular elections over the years, there are no armed conflicts for a long time, clans and tribes live together in peace, there is a functioning civil society, an initial economic development, but it is totally ignored by the international community and especially by europe. this is a paradox, because we then turn to rogue countries, we assist them, we give them aid, knowing full well that this aid will never reach the people affected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask mr gahler whether his experience in africa has not convinced him that in order to implement an effective aid policy, especially in emergencies, it is essential to organise a security system which allows ngos and aid workers to be on the ground, because otherwise there is a risk, as has happened, of directing aid operations from nairobi, kenya, instead of being present on the spot.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the emergency in the horn of africa has been defined by unicef as child famine, because in the drought-stricken states there are more than four million malnourished children. it is clear, then, that the appeals made in recent years, even by humanitarian organizations such as unicef and the red cross, have often gone unheeded. i thank the commission for the considerable aid it has given to this tragedy, but we must increase our efforts both to meet immediate needs and to promote long-term development programmes. i agree with my colleagues who said that the countries of the horn of africa must also be involved in truly strategic cooperation projects that go beyond emergency situations, even if at this moment it is necessary above all to encourage the opening of humanitarian corridors to allow aid to reach the populations in extreme distress, also because in some areas the red cross does not even arrive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for the commissioner in the light of the outcome of the debate: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission is trying to deal with this problem, which is a major problem, and what are the conditions, the requirements that you think should be met in order for the commission to play its part? i should like to clarify, do you think that the international community should deploy military forces to the area to allow humanitarian aid? does the commission consider that the international community should change its attitude towards somaliland in order to allow full implementation of humanitarian aid? finally, does the european council consider that the african union countries should be given the initiative to provide practical support on the ground for the assistance that the european commission can provide?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this resolution on libya represents a step forward in the quest for peace which must be led and supported by europe, by the whole of europe, not only by the three leaders who have come to libya today to assist, as it should be, in the transition process, but, as we have said in this proposal which has been voted on today, we cannot allow any leaps forward, the european union's foreign policy must be guaranteed in a united and therefore credible manner. a chance of redemption for young people, which is achieved mainly through targeted initiatives, appropriate european funds which really support an economic process which must be truly growing and sustainable for a truly moderate islamic country.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is important to sustain the positive evolution of political and economic relations between the eu and the republic of moldova. the future association agreement will deepen the political relationship and economic integration of the republic of moldova and the eu. its principal objective is to draw moldova closer to the eu, enhancing political cooperation and reinforcing joint measures in migration, asylum, border management, drugs and crime. in deepening its relations with the republic of moldova, the eu should also promote stability and confidence-building, including by contributing proactively to finding a viable solution to the transnistrian conflict, which is a source of regional instability. in order to achieve the conclusion of the agreement, the eu institutions should maintain strong pressure on the moldovan authorities to consolidate reforms and achieve tangible progress in the fight against corruption and the reform of the judiciary. the european union has made human rights and democracy a central aspect of its european neighbourhood policy. for this reason, the council, the commission and the eeas should encourage the moldovan authorities to adopt a comprehensive and effective anti-discrimination legislation and to strengthen media freedom and human rights.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the work done so far in the negotiations on the association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova can be described as satisfactory. the neighbourhood policy is certainly one of the strategic policies of the european union and as such requires commitment and dedication. the vote today underlines the importance of bilateral relations and agreements to promote greater economic integration with moldova, which shares with the eu strong geographical, historical and cultural links. but clearly these agreements are not limited to financial assessments. the whole policy of rapprochement with the european union has seen moldova make many strides forward in relation to certain shared values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, including those of minorities. i believe that these reform processes, although not yet fully completed, should be considered as excellent achievements.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr watson on the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas on the negotiations between the eu and the republic of moldova on the association agreement is an important tool for the future of relations with the republic of moldova in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy. i am voting in favour of the report because it specifically calls for reforms to ensure greater freedom for citizens, respect for human rights and greater openness of the markets.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it can help to make the negotiations with the republic of moldova ever more effective and closer to the european perspective of association. the main objective remains to encourage the implementation of structural reforms and to encourage dialogue between the parties in the republic of moldova, as political stability within the state is crucial to follow up any reform process.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is committed to supporting the reforms needed to open negotiations for a possible future accession of moldova: first, for this to happen, moldova must make efforts to make the fight against corruption more concrete, reform the judicial system, and pay greater attention to the protection of human rights. i have voted in favour of mr watson's report, considering the strategic and economic importance of increasing and improving relations with the countries of that particular geographical area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to abstain from voting on this motion for a resolution on the situation in libya. the document is certainly acceptable insofar as it calls for the consolidation of democracy and its principles in the new libya. the importance of a positive and peaceful outcome to the conflict in libya for the security of the eu and for the stability of the entire north africa and middle east region is also shared. the concern expressed in the document about the vast quantities of weapons still available to the population is also shared. however, the document makes no mention of the fact that an al-qaeda cell is currently trying to take control of libya itself, and that according to reliable sources this same cell has sufficient resources to be able to oppose the transitional council. the document therefore seems to express an unjustified optimism about the council's ability to control the country and cannot therefore be approved. furthermore, the document welcomes the inclusion of the principles of islam in the new constitution of libya, whereas our political ideology has always stressed that democracy and the islamic religion are not reconcilable. i therefore abstained.
in writing. the fall of the gaddafi regime is a hard-won success for the international community and for europe, and no one should now allow themselves the luxury of considering libya's transition to democracy as a downward spiral. the resolution calls on the european union to increase its influence in libya in order to achieve a peace based on the return to respect for human rights.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this document to express my full solidarity and my absolute support for the revolution led by the libyan people, so that it may be the first step towards building a libya based on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. it is now crucial for the eu to further step up humanitarian aid to respond to the new needs of the libyan population, in particular in tripoli and the most affected cities, in particular by facilitating access to drinking water, medicines and medical supplies.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the libyan revolution and the recognition by many countries of the new provisional government, i believe it is essential to ensure that islamic fundamentalism does not gain a foothold, as is unfortunately happening in other countries in the same area where political changes have recently taken place. i am particularly reminded of what is happening in egypt, where christians had no problems with the previous regime but now face serious risks linked solely and exclusively to fundamentalism and terrorism aimed at annihilating their presence. similarly, continuous violence against christians is repeated in iraq, where in the capital baghdad alone eight out of nine churches have been burned and several priests have been killed. libya, which was under an authoritarian regime led by the de facto family of dictator gaddafi, was a secular state. today, when we are recognizing the new transitional government in liberated libya, it is essential to demand full respect for human and religious rights and to prevent that country from slipping back into a theocratic and again illiberal regime.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it has never been more important than now to take a clear position against what is happening in syria. since march 2011, more than 2 200 civilians have been killed and many others arrested in the deliberate brutal repression of peaceful protestors by the syrian regime. president bashar al-assad must now step aside in order to open the way to fulfiling the legitimate democratic aspirations of the syrian people. the eu is unified in asking for an immediate end to violent crackdowns against peaceful demonstrators. all international humanitarian organisations, as well as international media, must have full access to the country. it is imperative to start an independent investigation into the killings and instances of torture by syrian security forces in order to ensure that perpetrators of such acts are held to account. the crisis in syria constitutes a threat to the stability of the entire middle east region, and the eu and its member states should continue cooperating closely with syria's neighbours, the arab league and other international actors in order to prevent the potential escalation of the current crisis in syria to other areas in the region.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the motion for a resolution on the recent developments in syria. the document condemns the crimes against humanity committed by the bashar al-assad regime in recent months and urges the international community to take measures to put an end to the atrocities it has been promoting. the document also intends to highlight the role of two members of the un security council, namely russia and china, in slowing down the punitive action against the syrian regime. i therefore decided to support the document and i voted in favour.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this document because it is necessary to condemn in the strongest terms the increasing use of force against demonstrators in syria, who are subjected to brutal and systematic persecution every day. by choosing the path of repression over the promise of sweeping reforms, the syrian regime has now irreparably compromised its legitimacy and as a result president bashar al assad and his regime must step down immediately.
in writing. − i strongly support this joint resolution because the fight against corruption must be one of our absolute priorities. unfortunately, there is a lack of real political commitment from leaders and decision-makers to combat corruption in all its forms. as we all know, corruption has kept many dictatorial regimes in power and allowed them to channel significant amounts of money to foreign bank accounts, including european ones. member states must step up their efforts to trace and freeze foreign stolen assets so they can be returned to their rightful owners. i also want to underline that corruption causes social harm, and organised crime groups use corruption networks to commit other serious crimes, such as trafficking in drugs and human beings. in addition to that, we should bear in mind that the economic recovery of member states, hit by the economic and financial crisis, is hampered by corruption, tax evasion, tax fraud and other economic crimes. for these reasons, member states must fully cooperate with europol, eurojust and olaf in investigating and prosecuting corruption-related crimes. it is also essential for all the eu institutions to ensure greater transparency by drawing up stronger codes of conduct or improving those that already exist.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the eu's efforts to combat corruption. one of the objectives of my political activity has long been to point out that in many member states, particularly in the balkan region, the phenomenon of corruption is still widespread and that the governments of the states concerned continue to show an ambiguous and uncertain attitude towards the fight against corruption. as i have pointed out in my questions, and as the document in question also shows, the ambiguity of governments on the subject of corruption is often a direct cause of the high prevalence of organised crime, whose activity inevitably affects all member states. i therefore welcome this document, which calls on the commission and the council to strengthen the eu strategy against corruption.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the commission must give priority to tackling the problem of corruption, by introducing deterrent sanctions and by ensuring that independent experts are part of the network of research correspondents. it is also necessary to ensure greater transparency by drawing up codes of conduct or improving those already in force, so as to provide for clear rules at least as regards conflicts of interest.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it condemns the late mobilisation of the international community. the first drought alerts in the region were given in december 2010, and earlier action could have helped abate the current catastrophe. tens of thousands of people have already died, 750 000 are imminently at risk of starvation and 12 million people across somalia, ethiopia, kenya and djibouti are in urgent need of food aid. in this text, we ask for an increased mobilisation of eu aid to assist the worst affected areas and the most vulnerable population groups. the commission should provide food aid, healthcare, clean water and sanitation supplies immediately. it is also important to stress that, in order to guarantee food security, the eu and horn of africa governments must link emergency assistance with a comprehensive sustainable programme focused on the agricultural sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the famine in east africa. the document urges the eu to take urgent measures to deal with the humanitarian tragedy taking place in the region, and stresses that the majority of the victims of this tragedy are women and children, forced to live in inhumane conditions and, in many cases, subjected to sexual abuse. the international community cannot stand idly by in the face of such violence, which is why i have chosen to share the exhortations that the document addresses to the commission. the document also rightly points out that the main responsibility for the humanitarian disaster is the responsibility of the islamic militia al-shabab, which has now reduced the region to a state of permanent war and is preventing humanitarian organizations from helping the innocent victims of this absurd conflict. the document aims to highlight the dangers that islamic extremism continues to pose not only to the west but also to the rest of the world, and how a common front is needed to put an end to it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe that more eu aid is needed to help the areas most affected by famine in somalia and the horn of africa. the priorities must be the provision of food aid, medical assistance, clean water and adequate sanitation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the european union does its part to prevent hundreds of thousands of people from dying of hunger. the desperate plight of entire populations, exhausted by hunger, war, famine, cannot leave us indifferent. i remember that last year, in order to raise the problem of southern somalia, i organized a 500 km marathon with the white star association from italy (alexandria) to strasbourg, and the marathoners were met by the president of parliament, mr buzek. a detailed investigation is also needed into how the various ngos and ngos use the funds available because too often it has been found that these funds, including foodstuffs, instead of going to the hungry populations were used by local mafias or even resold. we cannot allow aid to be dispersed to those who really need it, and it is therefore essential to delete from the lists of those receiving aid all those individuals and associations which cannot guarantee the good purpose of the aid.
in writing. - noncommunicable diseases, as statistics tell us, are the number one cause of death in the world. europe, which is no exception, must for its part consider a community strategy to reduce progressively the mortality rate associated with this class of diseases, which includes most of the chronic diseases which already today represent a serious problem both in terms of general welfare and public expenditure on health care. the member states, which retain legislative competence in this area, and the eu must make every effort to achieve the objectives of reducing mortality in time by strengthening the prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of noncommunicable diseases. the greatest challenge in the future, which if met will enable us to make a qualitative leap, will be education to a correct lifestyle, from nutrition to physical fitness. all these aspects were duly taken into account in the joint resolution we voted on, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that three out of five deaths in the world, 36 million a year, are caused by noncommunicable diseases. in fact, heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer are the causes of 63 percent of global deaths. these diseases can often be prevented by promoting healthy lifestyles and taking measures to limit the main risk factors: excessive consumption of alcohol, smoking, sedentary lifestyle and poor diet. alcohol abuse alone is responsible for the deaths of as many as 2.3 million people each year. the tobacco industry is worth as much as 6 million. these are numbers which should make us think and lead us to develop a shared and ambitious european approach. i would like to recall that italy was the first european country in 2005 to ban smoking in both workplaces and public places, a measure which, a year after its entry into force, had already reduced cigarette consumption by 8%. i hope therefore that not only will the resolution adopted today make a useful contribution to the debate on the fight against noncommunicable diseases, but that next week's un summit will also provide the platform for a new global health policy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the commission and the member states of the european union need to make a greater political commitment to the seriousness of the global epidemic of noncommunicable diseases. it is important that the european union supports the ambitious target of reducing national rates of mortality in this area by 25% by 2025 compared to 2010 rates.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am delighted to have this opportunity to address all of you before the final vote tomorrow morning on the green paper own-initiative report ‘towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding’, now known as the horizon 2020 programme. i congratulate the rapporteur, ms matias, for this excellent and enriching report and for delivering it in good time, allowing the commission to consider your proposals in depth in the context of drafting the horizon 2020 package. i would also like to thank the itre shadow rapporteurs, as well as the members of the six committees that delivered their opinions to itre. the parliament has been showing an immense interest in the operation of the future eu research and innovation programme, which is very significant as the horizon 2020 proposals will be transmitted to you for your consideration. horizon 2020 will come into effect for the next financial framework commencing in 2014. within the commission’s proposal for this new budget, the multiannual financial framework adopted on 29 june, we set out a total budget of eur 80 billion for horizon 2020 at constant 2011 prices. this is a budget designed to stimulate growth and jobs. the overall financial envelope is ambitious but realistic. prioritising investment in these areas now is the recipe to ensuring growth and jobs in the future. with this proposal the commission is clearly showing its strong commitment to delivering on the ambitions of europe 2020 and innovation union. the aim of horizon 2020 is to make eu research and innovation funding more efficient, easier to access for participants and have a greater impact. the overwhelming response to the consultation launched by the green paper earlier this year has given us a very practical input as to how this can be achieved. more than 1 300 responses to the online questionnaire were received and stakeholders also submitted some 750 consolidated position papers. i would like to thank ms matias, as well as the other meps who participated actively in the event on 10 june 2011 to wrap up the green paper consultation process. this was an excellent way to show all stakeholders that the eu institutions are working together to achieve the same policy goals. i think that the main issues addressed in your report are in line with those raised during the consultation process. we are clearly in broad agreement concerning the main issues that should be considered in our future funding programme. i would like to highlight some of your suggestions for horizon 2020 that are particularly interesting to the commission. i am of course very satisfied with the strong support you show for the concept of the common strategic framework and its objective of bringing research and innovation closer together and providing support across the full innovation cycle, from lab to market. excellence will remain the main criterion for allocating research and innovation funding. at the same time it is necessary to build stairways of excellence for those member states and regions that are under-represented in the current framework programme. this will mainly be a task for the structural funds. i am determined that our researchers should spend more time at their work and less time on administration. simplification will be a major element of the horizon 2020 package. one issue where we strongly agree is the need for a measure of continuity as regards the main successful instruments in the current programmes. this concerns, in particular, collaborative research, the european research council and the marie curie actions. i am also pleased that we both support an approach that places eu funding close to societal challenges and therefore close to the eu’s ambitious policy objectives in areas such as climate change, health, energy and security. finally, i would like to highlight that the matias report takes on board several ideas already foreseen in the carvalho report on simplification, the merkies report on innovation union, and the audy report on the fp7 interim evaluation. from the commission’s point of view, a line of continuity and coherence has been maintained and this has been of great help to us as we prepare the legislative proposals for horizon 2020.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain medicinal products. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report identifies a number of important aspects which deserve due consideration: coordination between research and innovation programmes, cohesion funds through a strengthened role for regional and local governments, as well as simplification of procedures and the flexibility needed to update programme priorities. the allocation of a share of the budget to small and medium-sized enterprises is mainly aimed at young people and women entrepreneurs, hence the link with the standard-setting system. i would like to emphasize in particular one aspect which i have personally proposed, namely the innovation voucher, which consists in evaluating, within the common strategic framework, an experiment based on the principle of accreditation or vouchers, with the aim of bringing companies closer to the issues of technological development and innovation, by creating a system in which the various actors, companies, universities, research centres can actively participate in the implementation of innovative processes.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the committee on agriculture and rural development we also wanted to stress the importance of research for the whole agri-food system, not just research capable of developing innovation in the laboratory, but research capable of translating into concrete results in the field. we felt we had to emphasize how research should provide answers to the citizens of the world. we have a population growth prospect and a strong prospect, 70 percent more, will be the demand for food by 2050. we must also answer this question through research which must also be able to meet the growing demand for a clean environment. so we have to combine increased production with environmental protection, renewable energy and reducing co2 emissions.
(microphone off) ... and european development over time have been successful and attractive, especially in the scientific community because they are considered an important source of funding which has often replaced national funding. efforts to make the seventh research programme more favourable to small and medium-sized enterprises have not improved their participation rate. simplification has not hit the mark. as mrs matias' report makes clear, administrative simplification measures and significant reductions in financial reporting requirements are needed. i also hope for a great deal of coordination and complementarity between the various research programmes and the community and national funding schemes in order to avoid overlapping and to encourage the optimisation of resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mrs matias for her work. i have also had the opportunity to work with her on other matters such as innovation and counterfeit medicines, and the work has always been done well, intelligently and with good results. i believe that the attention which the commission and parliament have recently paid to the issues of innovation and research is certainly a step forward in our work and has led us, through a series of decisions today, to ask for the right things, which were also mentioned by the commissioner. firstly, a larger financial allocation, which parliament is determined to fight for vigorously. secondly, the conviction that the word 'research' must henceforth always be accompanied by the word 'innovation', meaning precisely that niche which allows the research product to meet market demand, and thirdly, the need for europe to continue to maintain and raise the issue of excellence, on the one hand, and on the other to devote a part of its resources to research closer to the citizen and the territory of small and mediumsized enterprises, understanding that level of research and innovation as the level from which the brilliant idea that has always characterized our world, the world of research, the world of discoveries, can emerge. i therefore believe that the work done so far is good work which must be completed and will be completed only when the financial allocation is sufficient and when we meet the criteria of administrative simplification, simplification of procedures and speed in the evaluation of projects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is still moving too slowly in the field of science, failing to gain ground on the leadership of the united states and japan. the 27 member states invest on average only 2% of gdp in research and development instead of meeting the commission's 3% target. the publication of the green paper by the european commission is therefore a very appropriate occasion, which will enable us to actively relaunch the debate, as is clear from the excellent report drawn up by mrs matias. i share the rapporteur's request for the establishment of a pan-european joint fund to promote collaborative research in the european union and reduce inequalities between member states. at the same time, i believe it is essential that each measure is first preceded by a doubling of the budget for research and innovation programmes for the next financial period from 2014.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 27 september 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation of the committee on international trade on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip on the further liberalisation of agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products and amending the euro-mediterranean interim association agreement between the european community and the palestine liberation organisation (plo) for the benefit of the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip [07770/2011 - c7-0100/2011 - 2011/0042 (nle)) (rapporteur: maria eleni koppa) (a300-07/2011).
on behalf of the group of the european people's party (epp). madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, as alde we support and thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done in committee, sometimes even in circumstances which are not entirely extensive. the exchange between the european union and the palestinian authority is not much, we are certainly far from the potential we could have and who knows when we will be able to apply the fisheries parts, taking into account the double illegality to which the gaza strip is subject, the illegality of the blockade by israel and the illegality of hamas which holds control of the strip. however, we are finally taking full responsibility for our relations, we are making international trade a full-fledged foreign policy instrument and, above all, we are recognising the palestinian authority as a full partner. paradoxically, we are doing this at a time when we are, in new york, at the united nations, a little more hesitant about recognizing independence. we now hope that it will be implemented swiftly and with good will by all parties, including attention to ensuring that products from the jewish colonies do not benefit from any special commercial privileges from us, either as products declared to be israeli or as palestinian products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this is not a purely commercial agreement. it is clear that there is a great deal of 'political' aid in this agreement, and it is not a question of bringing palestine and israel together, it is clear that the situations are different. the agreement with israel is purely a commercial agreement, a commercial agreement which is intended to help a process which is the process of establishing a state, which is the process of improving the living conditions of that population. the trade relationship with europe has, moreover, been mediated by israel up to now, and the result is a result in which one tenth of our international trade is imported and nine tenths exported. that means that we have lived, europe has lived palestine up to now as a market and certainly not as a place to help production to move to europe. my view, therefore, and i congratulate mrs koppa, is that we are doing well in this international context too, and that we should give a strong and authoritative vote tomorrow in parliament, which is helping the process at the un and the meeting in warsaw at the end of the month.
the commissioner also mentioned the well-known and sensitive question of institutional relations between what calls itself the republic of china and the people's republic of china, with which the european union and all the member states have regular diplomatic relations. furthermore, there is no doubt that the economic cooperation agreement between taiwan and the people's republic of china signed in 2010 will help overcome the consequences of the territorial and political separation of the one china and facilitate a better trade discipline between the european union and taiwan. trade relations between us and the 14th global trading partner, the european union's seventh trading partner, can only improve, even if they need new rules to remove the current barriers, mainly non-tariff and language barriers, of a market still closed in the multilateral framework of the world trade organisation, of which taiwan has been a member since 2002. as i said at the beginning, the main difficulties are, however, relations with the people's republic of china, but i would like to see the two countries avoiding turning the current trade triangle into genuine triangulation which could penalise the european union commercially, as has already happened with other east asian trading partners such as korea, while we are raising the problem of dialogue with all but of recognising a single china politically.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with many of my colleagues in the people's party. there is a certain hypocrisy and hesitation in what the commissioner has told us. in the 2010 communication, the paradox was that the word taiwan was not written, it could not be pronounced. yet this is a small china, very democratic and extraordinarily vital from the point of view of trade and also technological innovation. there is a principle of reality which, especially in the commercial sector, we should adhere to. taiwan exists and does exist as a sovereign state; taiwan is a full member of the world trade organisation; we have a flourishing trade relationship with taiwan and taiwan is negotiating or will negotiate free trade agreements with many third countries. the other thing is that china, the people's republic of china, has always reacted very irritatingly to our approach to taiwan, but we also have the impression that it is able to adapt with a certain pragmatism at a later stage. so, back to the original question, which we haven't had a convincing answer to yet: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i believe that this parliament would be prepared to support the commission in this endeavour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, taiwan's efforts to improve relations in the strait, through a series of practical agreements with mainland china, culminating in the framework agreement on economic cooperation, have replaced the fear of tension and conflict with the hope of peace and understanding. the european union must recognise that taiwan issues are also in china's interests and must pursue a policy based on the principle of 'one country, two systems', as stated by us vice president joe biden on 18 august 2001 and as is normally applied today in hong kong. i am firmly opposed to any unilateral action that alters the state of taiwan and may increase tensions between the two sides of the straits, and i therefore call on the commission to respect china's territorial sovereignty, just as i call on china and taiwan to strengthen mutual trust and respect. we are in a global world and the events of east and west are also our events, but always with respect for the history of peoples.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commission, the council, the shadow rapporteurs and the opinion rapporteurs of five other committees, which, in addition to the committee on transport and tourism responsible for the subject, have worked on this own-initiative report. it is the first own-initiative report since the lisbon treaty introduced tourism policies as a matter of union competence in article 195. tourism is of course a subject in which there is strong competition between countries and often within each country between regions and territories. so what is the point of trying to work together on a european tourism policy? i think it makes a lot of sense, because we are facing a different world from that of 20 years ago, a multipolar world in which new countries are emerging, giving europe a huge amount of new tourist potential which we must intercept, reinforcing the primacy which europe today holds as the world's leading tourist destination. it makes sense because tourism is one of the sectors that has best withstood the global crisis, so we need to invest heavily to support the competitiveness of our tourism businesses and to support the visibility of our tourism destinations. with this report we aim to develop the 21 actions that the european commission and vice-president tajani identified in their communication of june 2010 and to identify within these 21 actions the priorities to be addressed immediately with a certain timetable. first, the subject of measures to support the competitiveness and access to credit of tourism enterprises; the issue of vocational training and qualification, with the need to invest heavily in new professionals with a more managerial outlook in order to attract these new tourist flows; the key theme of innovation and ict to improve the visibility and presence of our businesses and destinations on the web market. we must find new ways of overcoming a rigid seasonality which is constricting the tourist season and limiting the growth potential of our businesses. we need to keep investing in the stocks that have done well so far, i think calypso among them. we need to work on environmental sustainability and accessibility of accommodation facilities and destinations, so that many millions of possible and potential tourists with disabilities can also be full-fledged tourists. we must give greater value to cultural itineraries, as has been done in recent years with the council of europe, and introduce new ones. we must invest in international events, because international events can be an attractive element for tourists from outside europe. we must invest in quality, by strengthening quality as a central element of the european tourism proposal. we must not hide the fact that there is a problem with the financing of tourism policies. until now, there was a lack of competence and therefore no substantial budget lines to develop these projects, and there were also many resources, somewhat hidden, within the structural funds. so we must, on the one hand, make these existing resources more visible and, on the other hand, work closely with the commission to have specific funding lines to be able to develop the 21 actions and all the ambitious projects we have. this is the horizon we have outlined with this report, which should not remain a stone thrown into the pond, but is the first step in a work on which i believe the european parliament can still do a lot.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr fidanza and all the members who have worked with him on this own-initiative report, which once again demonstrates the degree of agreement between the european commission and the european parliament on a subject which is becoming of extraordinary importance at this stage. tourism is an economic sector which is fundamental to the growth and competitiveness of the european union as a whole, and i am pleased that the document we are discussing emphasizes just how much growth is also linked to the development of tourism and the contribution that this sector, which must now be a real sector of european industry and enterprise, can make in terms of gdp, employment and social inclusion. the data available to us, even those coming after the summer season, are reassuring. it is true that there was a decline in 2010, but tourist arrivals remained essentially unchanged in many countries during the summer of this year and the situation has even improved, especially with our work targeting the younger generation, as tourism is one of the sectors in the business world that provides the most employment for young people. i am glad to be able to share the report when it proposes new initiatives and concrete actions of great interest, which i will certainly take into account in implementing the 21 actions of the action plan, which aim precisely at developing a coherent union policy for high-quality, modern, competitive and at the same time sustainable tourism. with these measures, we are aiming, in terms of competitiveness, to promote synergies between recent innovative technologies and tourism, as mr fidanza has stressed, and to enable the participation of tourism enterprises, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, and their digital transition. we intend to improve the supply-demand relationship in the tourism labour market by mapping qualifications and professional skills. we want to ensure a constant quality of the european tourist product and intensify efforts to promote europe as a set of sustainable and high-quality destinations and, as the rapporteur mentioned in his speech, in the context of social tourism we must ensure the future implementation of the calypso preparatory action by creating an internet-based supply and demand platform as a tool to facilitate transnational tourist exchanges. i am convinced that, with increased attention from stakeholders and the involvement of one member state, transnational tourism exchanges and web projects co-financed by calipso will achieve very positive results. as regards sustainability, it is closely linked to competitiveness in this important sector, because the quality of tourist destinations is strongly influenced by the natural and cultural environment and their integration into the local community. our efforts are therefore also aimed at ensuring sustainable development for tourism. in this connection, i intend to propose a european charter for responsible tourism, which will establish at european level the commitment of public administrations, tourist companies and all those interested in promoting tourism activities in europe which meet a set of sustainable and socially, economically, environmentally and culturally responsible principles. i was in madrid last week to conclude the first ethical tourism day and in my speech i emphasized the commitment to combat the exploitation of women and children, but also to protect the environment, and therefore to use tourism as a tool in our strategy to combat climate change. i also intend to increase the visibility of europe and its tourist destinations. we are ready to take part in the summit in krakow on 6 october, which will focus on joint transnational promotion with third countries, and i would like to stress that the european commission has been the protagonist of an initiative, a pilot project, to increase tourist arrivals in europe with latin american countries during the low season. we have signed an agreement with chile, argentina and brazil, to which some of the countries of the union have acceded: first of all spain, france, italy, portugal, poland, but also romania, which - just the other day when i was in bucharest - decided to take part in this project involving the largest european airlines and all tour operators. in short, it is also an opportunity to see the increasing presence of latin americans during the off-season. this is a signal we want to send to all businesses operating in the tourism sector. and i can only rejoice once again with the european parliament and its proposal when it comes to financing. the success of the joint undertaking and the future of the european tourism sector will of course depend to a large extent on the ability to obtain adequate political and financial support for european tourism policy within a current financial framework as well as beyond 2014. i want to reassure those who may have concerns about competence; i am not going to use the legal basis of the treaty, i am not going to violate the principle of subsidiarity, and the european commission - i believe i am once again in agreement with parliament - does not intend to occupy the space and competence of the regions or the competence of the national states in the field of tourism. we are simply trying to increase tourist arrivals within the european union. as i had the opportunity to reply to mr fincantieri during question time in the last plenary, i am working towards the objective of increased funding also in the context of the next financial perspective. as you know, we have decided, as part of the commission's proposal, to set up a box to support the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, which will be endowed with 2.4 billion euros. i am of course counting on tourism to be included in the activities to support competitiveness, and i am also counting on parliament's support once again, once the discussions reach the level of the two co-legislators. i thank you once again for your attention and i can assure parliament once again of my commitment to ensuring that tourism can, at this delicate stage, be a key factor in growth and above all a means of protecting the environment and creating new jobs, especially for younger workers.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the challenge for the coming years is to ensure that europe, as has been said, maintains its position as the world's leading tourist destination and, at the same time, is able to exploit all its territorial assets, both in terms of environmental protection and competitiveness. it is a challenging and unforeseen challenge, also in the light not only of the opportunities, but also of the aggressiveness of other countries in this field, from other continents from china to india to brazil. in this context, as commissioner tajani said, it is essential, as was also stated in the opinion we adopted in the committee on regional development, to combine a strong overall strategy for tourism throughout the european union with a focus on the role of the regions and territories. in this respect, it is essential that the regions and local authorities are fully involved from the outset, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i also believe that the development of integrated tourism networks and projects should be encouraged, starting with the creation of partnerships for the exchange of good practice. i think the proposal to identify a 'europe' brand which is capable of defining a high quality tourist product is also right. it is obviously up to the commission to define its priorities better, especially from the financial point of view, to ensure that this primacy of europe is maintained in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, as rapporteur for the alde group, i am pleased with the work done. it is a historic step in the institutional evolution of europe since the treaty of lisbon, which for the first time gives the european parliament and the commission powers in the field of tourism, the third component of the european economy and employment. firstly, i would like to point out that the text we are proposing to the house today sets out a comprehensive governance approach based on the europe 2020 strategy and develops a set of proposals to achieve growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive in all respects. in this sense, it indicates specific programming tools such as macro-regional strategies, interregionality, joint and complementary planning. in these moments, when the governance compass is lost, we know what the negative effects are, in this sense the dossier traces a very precise path. and among these plans and instruments, i would like to mention the extraordinary plan to promote the gradual reduction of the seasonal nature of tourism, referred to in paragraph 63 of the report. in the context of a european economy which is unfortunately losing large shares of industrial production, tourism can and must be an important factor in overall growth, especially if public and private actors are able to create an integrated approach between the different sectoral policies, the various financial instruments and to build tourism as a real system integrating the different economic sectors: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide aid to the countries of central and eastern europe in the form of loans for the financing of projects in the following sectors: agriculture, industrial and craft production, transport, services, etc. i should like to remind you that the text under vote contains numerous references to islands and peripheral areas, which, as i said earlier, represent a concrete way of implementing, also through appropriate financial instruments, the inclusion criterion of the europe 2020 strategy. ladies and gentlemen, the tourism sector is also characterized by its environmentally and socially sustainable growth, which supports small and mediumsized tourism enterprises for which we have provided the business incubator tool for innovation in order to provide knowledge tools that allow them to implement, and the tourist to have, better travel solutions. in addition, following the specific actions already indicated by the commission, i must acknowledge to commissioner tajani that he has paid particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises, which the report defines as a guarantee of innovation from below and to which the dossier expressly recognises the function of ensuring the quality, variety and authenticity of the various regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr fincantieri on his excellent work. we have excellent proposals in your report and i am sure that the european commission will take them seriously. i think we should have a two-pronged approach. on the one hand, to improve the image of european tourism in the eyes of the world by promoting our common heritage, but on the other hand, to support and enhance the best possible characteristics of each member state; an example for all, the unique and unrepeatable italian beaches of their kind. i am therefore in favour of the introduction of a european trademark, provided that national characteristics are also promoted. turning to the internal market, i am pleased to note that the proposal to harmonise the classification of hotels has been accepted, which would certainly raise quality standards and strengthen consumer protection. the idea put forward by the imco committee, but unfortunately not accepted in the report, of creating a white list of tour operators, should not be dismissed in my view and i hope that it can be taken up again in the future.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am also grateful for the fact that the number of members who wanted to take part in this debate was highlighted, which shows that tourism policy is a priority policy for us, that it is part of the policy to support entrepreneurship, and i am pleased that many of you have stressed the importance of supporting small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises in this sector. as you know, my priority is to support the business community and, as i said in my first speech, i repeat that for me the tourism sector is a full part of the business and industrial sector. many of the things that were said in the debate coincide perfectly with the commission's position - i repeat - there is perfect harmony and this only strengthens joint action between the european commission and the european parliament, and who can be happier about that than i after having sat on the benches of parliament for fifteen years. we must not forget that the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their tourism. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. european policy and european coordination, european governance, are only intended to add value, they are certainly intended to enhance and develop the internal market, but they are also intended to attract more tourists from the richer countries to the european union. that's why i'm working very hard with latin america, i'm working with brazil, india, russia and china. clearly, the issue of visas, as many of the speakers have pointed out, is a key issue. the european commission has supported this, we are strongly committed to it, we have discussed it in informal councils with tourism ministers: there's a problem with the security. my position is that a terrorist certainly does not worry, has no problem getting a visa, but i think that we should make a further effort to try to solve the problem or at least to facilitate the issuing of visas. i fully share the commitment to the low season so that hotels and all tourist facilities can be open as much as possible and hence the pilot projects we are launching - i repeat - the one in latin america is significant for me. i also agree that all sectors must be exploited to attract tourists, including the sports sector. it is no accident that the european commission's document refers to the london olympics as an event to be promoted as the expo in milan in short, everything europe has to offer must become a tool for increasing tourist arrivals. i fully share the strong call for ecotourism, tourism must also be a means of enhancing europe's environment, of enhancing its natural heritage, whether coastal or mountainous, and as has been stressed, i am also fascinated by the idea of enhancing cycling tourism, which is a sector that is gaining ground. the other day, on my official visit to bucharest, i had a long talk with the minister of tourism, who has started a project to develop cycling tourism in the capital of romania. i also agree with the idea that we should promote areas such as the danube delta, and also countries which are apparently not at the forefront of tourism policy. but europe has a unique heritage to offer in every country. i am glad that countries like poland are making a strong commitment to a european tourism policy, which is certainly an added value for the growth of our economy, also through the 6th summit, as the hungarian presidency has done in the past. so i can only rejoice with mr fidanza and all the members - the presence of so many members in this chamber at this hour of the day is also a rarity - so it means that the subject is of extraordinary interest. i would stress - and i also reassure the s&d group speakers - the strong commitment to the protection of employment, to the respect of workers, and i stressed during my speech how important the tourism sector is for job growth, especially for youth employment. i intend to continue to be committed, as i was when i was transport commissioner, to protecting the rights of all those who travel, including tourists. i would remind you that, fortunately, with the support of parliament, we have been able to approve the passenger charter, especially for passengers with reduced mobility, in all transport sectors. i intend to use this work also to develop - as we had done for the air transport sector - package tours; i believe that this action, which i started as commissioner for transport, i can continue to pursue as commissioner for industry and tourism. because it is never said, but i am a commissioner with a delegation for industry, business and tourism. i repeat, all sectors must be given priority, including the special features, i am thinking of gastronomic tourism, including the magnificent restaurants, perhaps among the best in europe, in san sebastián. every european reality therefore represents an added value which it is therefore good to present. and finally, to those who are concerned about an invasion by the european commission, i would like to say in conclusion: i do not have an invasive conception of the commission and the union, but europe can be an added value. there may be some beautiful sites in the european union that are worth visiting, but which are not known to the general public in china or russia or south america. visiting europe also means visiting this other, less known reality, it means giving europe a chance to develop the principle of subsidiarity in the tourism sector. that is what i intend to do and i cannot but thank mr fincantieri once again for the harmony which he has sought to bring between the european parliament's policy and that of the commission in his text. i can assure all members that it will be my firm commitment to continue to work so that there is an ever-increasing strength for tourism policy, so that it can truly become a key sector for growth, competitiveness, employment and environmental protection in our european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i really want to thank the many colleagues who wanted to speak and those who unfortunately were unable to do so, and i thank them for the purposeful contributions which have marked this whole process in recent months and this debate as well, and i want to thank my group in the first place, but all the political groups, for making this debate possible. i do not know whether any of you have noticed, or perhaps only a few of you have noticed, that until a few days ago this debate would not have taken place and we wanted to insist that it be discussed on the occasion of this fortunate coincidence with european tourism day and as this is the first report since lisbon. i think your presence here today is a testament to the fact that we were right to insist. how can we not drop this job and be constantly a thorn in the side of the commission's work? firstly, by supporting what has already been set in motion, because when we started this work the commission set in motion a number of initiatives which are already under way. the issue of the quality label was discussed earlier, for example: there is already a working group with the operators in the sector - without any intention of breaking the principle of subsidiarity or imposing from above solutions which are not shared - which is under way and has already been activated and to which we can contribute. we have the financial issue - we said this earlier - starting from the 2012 budget there are important pilot projects on cultural tourism, industrial heritage, tourism and accessibility, which have been presented by some colleagues and which can be supported by the whole parliament to invest some resources on important aspects, the financial perspective 2014-2020. and then, i think - i conclude, mr president - that we will also have the opportunity in the coming months to develop some specific aspects which we have outlined in this report which sets out a scenario, but which can be further developed by specific own-initiative reports because we believe that they deserve to be further developed.
in writing. i thank mr fidanza for his fruitful work. tourism has enormous potential for achieving some of the european union's important objectives, such as sustainable development, economic growth, employment and socioeconomic cohesion. in recent years, employment growth in tourism has been considerably higher than in other sectors. in fact, the tourism sector in the european union generates more than 4% of gdp, with some 2 million businesses employing around 4% of the total workforce, around 8 million jobs. the need to support the sector is therefore clear, including by improving training and the recognition of professional qualifications. at european level, the union needs to implement an integrated strategy with clear and high-level objectives, with effective and targeted measures that promote innovation and improve the quality of tourism services, for example by ensuring increasing accessibility for people with reduced mobility. i agree with the creation of a european quality label and with the idea of diversifying tourism through cultural, historical and religious promotion, and i stress the importance of tourism promotion through the promotion of european personalities who have spread european culture beyond the continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in september, the hunting season opens in many european countries and millions of wild animals are being shot in the name of an anachronistic and no longer justifiable activity. despite the protection provided by european legislation, in some countries, such as italy, some local authorities allow hunting by derogation: it's a hunt for protected birds like the finch or the piper just to appease the hunters' lobby and secure their votes. the veneto and lombardy regions have recently approved the hunting by derogation again, showing contempt and indifference also towards the european court of justice and its very recent judgments condemning it. europe needs tougher rules, to protect wildlife we must say enough to this barbaric medieval practice. we must immediately stop these illegal regulations in these regions.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur and his colleagues for their support for the commission’s proposed road safety policy orientations 2011-2020. one of the main messages in this report is that everybody can contribute to road safety, at the level of the eu institutions, member states, regional or local authorities, ngos, the industry and the citizens themselves who have, as wisely highlighted in the report, not only a right but also a duty to contribute to road safety. i am particularly pleased to see that the report supports the commission’s ambitious target to halve the number of deaths by 2020. one member mentioned that we are worried about increasing accidents. accidents actually are declining and the last period of this road safety action plan saw the decline of casualties by 47%. but still, every death is a tragedy – i totally agree – and we must fight to halve the number of deaths by 2020. i agree that, in the longer term, a ‘vision zero’ strategy where no one is killed on eu roads should be developed, and this goal has been integrated in the white paper on transport. on the substance of road safety policies and measures, the commission is ready to support most of the proposed actions and appreciates that they are addressed not only to the commission but also to member states, and industry should play its part too. i would like to already give you my reaction to two topics that are more specifically addressed to the commission. the first one is the idea of establishing an ‘eu road safety coordinator’ as part of the commission. i understand the reason behind this proposal. in my opinion, such a coordinator should mainly act as an ambassador for existing actions, with a general mission of promoting road safety rather than coordinating or monitoring road safety policies and legislation. secondly, the report calls on the commission to produce, by the end of 2011, a fully-fledged action programme incorporating a detailed set of measures with clear timetables for their implementation. we are, of course, reflecting on a number of high priority issues, such as injuries and safety of motorcyclists. my services have started to work with relevant experts on the definition of injuries. besides, in early october the high level group on road safety will meet to discuss the concrete implementation of the commission orientations. the commission will carry out appropriate impact assessments before envisaging any legislative measure. the commission is grateful for the many useful and innovative ideas expressed. we will duly consider all these proposals when translating the road safety policy orientations into concrete actions. the commission will keep parliament closely informed of progress made on the implementation of the road safety policy orientations 2011-2020. i can count on the firm support and commitment of the european parliament to improve road safety when road safety legislative proposals will be put on the table of the core legislators. i am very happy that parliament, before the summer break, adopted a very big decision about cross-border enforcement of traffic violations, fighting against four killers – alcohol, speed, failure to stop at red lights and non-use of seat-belts. so a very important step has been made and, in general, we all share the same objective: to reduce casualties and injuries. the question in detail is cultural background, different practices in member states, where we can of course find common ground, but we also must also ensure that the objectives are the same and that everybody is working hard. so let us allow the member states to take most of the responsibility for implementing these actions.
in writing. citizens of the european union have the right to a high level of road safety. the statistics provide an encouraging figure: in recent years, safety on european roads has increased, with the number of road deaths in the union falling by 36% between 2001 and 2009. the third european action programme 2001-2010 has made a decisive contribution to this, introducing progress in road safety and helping to save precious lives. a recent commission communication sets out the new strategic objectives and, in particular, the ambitious aim of halving the total number of road fatalities in the european union by 2020. while i share and welcome the commission's objectives, i believe that maximum coordination at local, regional, national and european level in the preparation and implementation of the measures to be implemented should not be overlooked. however, given the current structures existing at eu level, it seems unlikely that such an integrated approach can be developed consistently. i therefore share the rapporteur's proposal to establish a european road safety coordinator, who, with the support of the commission itself, would play a valuable role as an intermediary for cooperation between the different levels of intervention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, european schools are a necessity for more than 20 000 children of staff of the european institutions. it is not a luxury, but simply to offer the possibility to those who are called to work and live abroad in a different cultural environment to have access to education in their mother tongue for their children. i am in favour of the development of the european school model throughout the union and not just in the workplaces of the european institutions. i believe that this particular education system allows pupils to study in a multicultural and multilingual environment while retaining their mother tongue. i am also convinced that this model will help to enhance european citizenship and promote mobility within the union itself. i conclude by saying that the european school model promotes integration, in the spirit of the european union's motto 'united in diversity'.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must really thank all those who have contributed in these weeks and months to the production of this document which we are voting on today in this house. we have worked very well, i must say, and there has been a very constructive debate. the motion for a resolution which we are voting on today is therefore the fruit of a very joint effort, the fruit of the contribution of all the political forces and of the whole of parliament. i think there's a very strong common sensitivity to this issue, partly because, we have to remember, we live in an era that is really characterized by an exponential increase in disasters. the numbers, if you look at them in their raw form, they speak volumes. the number of disasters in the world has increased fivefold. in 1975, there were 78 catastrophic events, and today we have almost 400 per year. in the last 20 years, these disasters have unfortunately claimed 90 000 lives and affected more than 29 million people, while the economic losses amount to 211 billion euro. it is clear that we are facing phenomena of this magnitude which call for a stronger response, a more effective response and a very strong commitment on our part. we all have in our eyes the images of the earthquake in haiti, the floods in pakistan, what happened in japan. europe itself sees on its territory every year flash floods, fires, let us remember the ash cloud following the eruption of the icelandic volcano. it is not necessary to go any further to say how important the work we are doing here in parliament is, following two fundamental principles which are our polar stars: the principle of solidarity which is reinforced by the solidarity clause of the lisbon treaty and the principle of subsidiarity. we're moving along these lines. the european union's intervention has always been generous and effective in the past - i believe that commissioner georgieva's unsuccessful work is proof of this - but today we need to make a qualitative leap. we are prepared to make a qualitative leap from ad hoc to a response where the response is enhanced by the early identification of the means available in the member states to the european civil protection mechanism. it is also important to emphasize for this leap in quality and to move from information sharing and emergency response to the role of planning and monitoring and coordination that we want the fundamental role of services like gms, and i take this opportunity to also say the concern that there is for what is happening with respect to the budget for these new technologies that are fundamental. we have inserted the importance of communication to the citizens, because this too has been taught by the japanese experience, it is never enough and never sufficient. and we are waiting for the commission, which we ask to submit as soon as possible, to present the proposal on civil protection in legislative form.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner georgieva, we are pleased and i would like to thank first of all rapporteur gardini and the other shadow rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation on a very topical and extremely important matter such as this. we are pleased, i said, with the balanced and rational approach with which the dossier has been dealt with, which perfectly reflects the principle of subsidiarity and the idea of a solidarity clause which should inspire the actions of the member states in response to disasters and in the role of civil protection. in particular, i believe that it is necessary to develop a predictable and planned system within the framework of the european union's civil protection mechanism, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity and therefore without this entailing the creation of a supranational body, which would risk duplicating costs and competences without guaranteeing efficient operation. i particularly appreciate the attention paid to extremely vulnerable areas such as islands, which is well expressed in the body of the whole report, as well as the emphasis on the link between preparedness, prevention and response to disasters which forms an inseparable triad. finally, i think it deserves attention, and i am pleased that other colleagues have also shown the same sensitivity in dealing with the subject of major regional risks, and in particular the many references to actions and strategies aimed at fighting fires.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in thanking mrs gardini for her excellent work. it is clear, and we all know it, that in the event of natural disasters, and also human disasters, the best thing to do is to prevent them, but that is not always possible. and yet, when they do, we must be prepared to intervene in the best possible way and as quickly as possible. the lisbon treaty therefore allows the european union to also act in the field of civil protection and it is therefore appropriate, in the event of a disaster, to be able to set up emergency management centres that are operational 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. we must avoid overlapping and duplication of efforts at both political and operational level, and it is therefore important, in the spirit of european solidarity, to stress the need for all member states to contribute to the implementation of this project. there must be no barriers when we are in need, but we must be able to intervene quickly and as efficiently as possible. and then, if you can also reduce costs in times of crisis, of course it doesn't hurt.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the minute i have at my disposal i would certainly like to thank mrs gardini for her excellent report, which is also the result of discussions with the institutions and associations concerned. but we need more, we need a legislative resolution that can go one step further and organize civil protection at european level without any more shortcomings and without any more overlaps. at a time when the role of the european union is being debated, this is the area where more europe is needed to give life to a united and coordinated action by our entire union, especially since civil protection is based on solidarity and voluntary work, which is in line with the objectives of the lisbon treaty and the current european year of volunteering. and, of course, we also need a financial investment, for which i thank the commissioner for having highlighted this aspect and for having asked for an increase in the budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in congratulating mrs gardini and the commissioner, i would like to say that i share the need for european legislation, a bottom-up approach and a coordination centre which will make the most of the best practices and models of civil protection intervention in the various member states, integrating expertise and voluntary work, national coordination and local bodies. as regards two points, namely the reinforcement of 112 as the single emergency number in europe, i ask the commission to make an active check, considering that, for example, in my country there is a move towards further fragmentation of the numbers and structures for responding to emergency calls, even two numbers for fires. secondly, the role of new technologies in the field of pre-warning and warning should be explored in depth, for example by supporting the application of prototypes which are financed by the eu but which are not adopted by the member states. one last point: i think it is important to stress in the organization of civil protection the social changes that have taken place in europe's population, which is increasingly older, foreign, concentrated in the periphery and with few infrastructures, and therefore the accessibility and the possibility of being supported by this most fragile part of the population must be safeguarded.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you very much for the excellent comments and suggestions for the legislative proposal. i shall try to group my answers, starting with what this proposal would do in bringing together a true european capacity. madam striffler brought up this question first. we also had a question from madam grossetête on how this relates to the barnier report. what we are proposing is to integrate the capabilities of member states and in this sense it is more lexis than substance: where the barnier report was leading us on to and where we are going to be. in the barnier report, from which we have adopted a total of 12 proposals, the idea is to integrate the capabilities of member states but there the approach was more top-down, whereas what we are coming with is bottom-up. i can say with confidence that we have support from member states for this proposal, especially from member states where the national requirements are such that the delegation is not even at the level of federal or central government but goes down to regional authorities. so we will have an integrated capacity, we can call it a force, of member states’ assets. i want to stress that we are not waiting for the legislative proposal to advance. we have already made significant advancements in integrating the capabilities of member states. when i took office, we had less than 40 modules registered at european level. i can report today that we have 124 modules registered at european level, plus eight coordination teams. the advancements we have taken are in response to the needs. just for information, in 2010 alone we activated our civil protection mechanism 28 times. for reference: in previous years it would be two, three, four or five times and this year we already have activated it 11 times and the probability is that there may be more activations. let me take a second point that was brought up by many meps – mr arsenis, mr czarnecki and madam de brún and, i am sure, others – on the importance of preparedness and prevention. we know that a euro invested in prevention brings four to seven euros in return. yet, moving ahead with prevention has proven to be difficult in europe and elsewhere in the world. we recognise how critically important prevention is. i have just come back from washington where, we in the commission took the lead, together with the world bank and the government of japan, in making this question of preparedness and of prevention a high global priority and we will continue with structured measures focusing on actions taken in prevention in order to boost this work. we will come back with additional legislative proposals in this area as we advance in our operational thinking. of course, forests are a big part in our prevention measures. they matter in floods, they matter in being ready for forest fires, they matter in the ecological system for cities and rural areas. so, mr arsenis, you will see forests becoming a big part of our preparedness and prevention work. but preparedness is also training together, and this is where the commission has already advanced our role. just last friday i was in poland taking part in a five country preparedness exercise, carpatex, and i can tell you that bringing our community of civil protection together is paramount in saving lives, and reducing property, and we in the commission are dedicated to do more of it. i was asked by mr leinen and mr seeber how we coordinate with the high representative and i can give you a very positive report that on the basis of activations and practice in dealing with crises we have advanced significantly the institutional arrangements and we have much more clarity in who does what, when and where. clearly, inside europe the high representative has no role. two-thirds of activations of the civil protection last year were inside europe and there it is a matter of internal eu action. outside europe, we act as a first responder bringing civil protection humanitarian aid, whereas the high representative has a role in political and defence coordination. of course, in complex crises the high representative takes the lead and there we bring our skills and capabilities – this is best practice in our member states, where civil protection is coordinated. member states have their own civil protection coordination centres and politics and defence are coordinated. sometimes civil protection steps in and sometimes they have no role depending on the type of crisis. those of you who watched president obama of the united states responding to the floods recently, will have seen that he did it from the civil protection centre of the united states, but when you watch him, in the case of bin laden, he was in the situation room of the united states, in the white house. so, we do have separate roles, we do of course have to coordinate in complex emergencies and depending on the emergencies we define exactly how this coordination takes place. what obstacles do we face from member states? the critical issue we face is to assure member states that we are mindful of their legislative conditions, in other words, that we respect how civil protection is organised in each and every one of our member states, and recognise that in national disasters where there is no role for the european union and the country can cope on its own, of course we will not interfere in this response. member states in current fiscal conditions and the budgetary environment want to be sure that we will be mindful of cost efficiency. i can give you my word that i am very fiscally prudent and that, yes, we will make sure that every euro of our taxpayers’ money is spent in the best possible and most effective manner. in other words, at community level when it makes sense and at the country level when it is more appropriate. i was also asked about how we deal with post-disasters. it is a very critical question to link relief to rehabilitation and development and to make sure that development assistance, including technical capabilities from the european union, is made available to countries affected by disasters. we have taken some measures in that respect to improve the post-disaster risk assessment that is carried out and then make sure that the european contribution is in this context of internationally coordinated efforts in developing countries. i do agree that this is an area where more work needs to be done, and we have made it a priority with commissioner piebalgs for our cooperation. i very much agree with ms de brún that we must respect the principles of neutrality, impartiality and independence when we provide humanitarian assistance, including civil protection in-kind assistance in developing countries, especially in areas that are affected not only by disasters, but also by conflicts. this must always be respected and i am grateful to baroness ashton for very much supporting this principle of neutrality and independence in humanitarian work. speakers including ms dăncilă – i apologise if i mispronounced the name – made a point on the solidarity fund. we work together with commissioner hahn to make a proposal for redefining the solidarity fund so that it can act immediately through a pre-funding arrangement in case a country is affected by disasters. last year i faced a very uncomfortable situation when floods affected moldova and romania. in moldova we can provide humanitarian assistance overnight, in romania we cannot. i am therefore a very strong proponent of making sure that solidarity is expressed right at the time when people need it when a disaster hits. on the question of gmes, this is a pilot project that is very much on the priority list of the working programme for the commission. the pilot project is now completed but the commission intends to support gmes financially to the extent possible in the next multi-year financial framework and of course we count on parliament to support our proposal so that it can be done. last but not least on the forest fire-fighting reserve, this is a pilot project that unfortunately came to an end. we cannot extend it, but we are going to include it in the legislative proposal. talking about where we have difficulty with member states, some of our member states are really not in favour of it so we would need your support in parliament. it is the right thing to do, we have seen it in the years we have applied it, but we still have some work to do to convince member states that this funding arrangement has to be continued once the legislative proposal is being done. i apologise for taking so long, but there were very many good questions and i did not want to skip any of them.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. i had already calculated that i would have to give back what i had stolen in the beginning in terms of time. there is not much more to add, because it seems to me that the house has reaffirmed the great opportunity we have in this case to be truly ambitious and to give more europe to our citizens, a europe which unfortunately is often felt to be far away. and this time we have an extraordinary tool to make europe's closeness felt even in small things - beyond the basic issues that need not be repeated - as a number, 112, may seem, but it has been mentioned several times, or article 23 of the treaty, which says that citizens should be made aware that a european citizen who is in a third country where his country of birth, his country of origin, is not represented is protected by any diplomatic body of any european union country. we need this europe.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a picture of disaster. we are talking about a strategy for europe, but we do not see the strategy. it's a picture of disaster with no perspective. i thank you for the report which gives no way out. the commission's foresight needs to be explained to me. the data you have brought us represents a debacle of what is not europe. there are the interests of some northern european countries which want to liberalize everything and trade regardless of the social dumping and the imbalances we have with the so-called partner countries, without any interest, without any protection for our small and mediumsized enterprises, defending essentially british and german interests, both from the commission and from the report. i smile when i see that the report calls on the member states and the commission to communicate better, since the citizens of the european union are angry at globalisation for the loss of productivity. if you think better communication is the answer, then we've got nowhere to go.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of trade policy coincides with the very future of european competitiveness. we have pursued a policy of opening up our markets for years, and we have been perhaps more generous to others than to ourselves, but the slowdown in the doha negotiations and the protectionist regurgitations of many of our partners, including strategic partners, and the enterprising spirit of the emerging countries must lead us to reconsider the way in which we europeans want to relate to the world. in this context, words such as reciprocity and the protection of the european interest must become for us the sundial of the goodness of what we do. we must play a leading and uncompromising role in supporting the conclusion of the doha negotiations with a balanced global agreement, which is an indispensable condition for reaching a free trade agreement that will really open up markets and above all create equal opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises. trade policy and economic governance go hand in hand in this world and therefore require a new financial system and a new exchange rate policy and also a redefinition of trade defence instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recitals to this report cite data which clearly show that over the last decade the european union has lost a good share of world productivity to the so-called emerging powers, especially china and india. however, it seems clear from paragraph 11 of the same report that this is all due to a simple communication problem, but the crisis in europe is real and it is certainly not a communication problem, it is due to the fact that the european union has not taken care to defend our companies and our workers, but has let other countries, especially asian countries, take advantage of our openings without getting anything in return. i do not want to accept the idea that our economic fabric is dying. if there are opportunities in international trade, it is right to take them, but without having to sell our history and traditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for commissioner de gucht. i have recently received a reply from you to a question i had on the difficulties in obtaining raw materials for the tin industry. many countries place severe restrictions on the export of raw hides and skins and it is becoming increasingly difficult for our companies to operate on the product. at the same time, an agreement is being worked out with ukraine which seems to provide for a transitional clause for ten years before the sector is fully liberalised. do you not think that ten years is an unreasonably long time? maybe three or five years might be enough. in tuscany, italy, the historic home of the conch, there are many companies in difficulty that need help as soon as possible. ten years is too long and can set a bad precedent for other future agreements as well.
mr president, i have another question, a curious one: i wanted to know what the commission is doing about the problem of counterfeiting. there are more and more counterfeit products circulating in europe, especially in prato, with unfair chinese competition, and these products which continue to reach our customs and our markets are creating real difficulties and, above all, health problems.
member of the commission. − on the currency issue, it is true that the currency of china is undervalued and it is not good that a currency does not reflect the strength of an economy, so they should adapt. but on the other hand, there are always two sides to every coin. you should realise that two thirds of what we import from china we re-export, to the extent that if the renminbi were to suddenly rise, a surge would also certainly harm our economy. so, let us try to look at it from both sides.
member of the commission. − between now and 2020, you will have numerous occasions to ask questions about the progress we have been making. we have no specific statistic tool, but we have a parliament that is very anxious to get all the information. i will do everything possible to get you that information.
ladies and gentlemen, good morning. i have two announcements to make. the first announcement concerns the written declaration presented by mr castex, mr brantner, mr peillon, mr preda and mr vajgl on the launch of the erasmus and leonardo euro-mediterranean programmes. this written declaration has been signed by more than a majority of the members of parliament and will therefore be circulated to the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the minutes of this sitting, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes. i want to congratulate the subscribers and the presenters. i think there's a request from mr peillon for a brief statement.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to steal only 20 seconds from the house. we are happy to be obliged to come to strasbourg every month, and we do so with pleasure, but i would like to appeal to this presidency to make itself a spokesman for it, together with the commission presidency, so that we can achieve greater simplicity in terms of travel. we, the italian delegation, and i think i am echoing the sentiments of the other members, are unable to have direct flights from our capital, rome, to strasbourg, because we are subjected to a tiring journey of a day. i had to leave yesterday morning from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. to get to strasbourg. if we want to ensure that air france and the french state are proactive once and for all, we must make it as easy as possible for them to get to strasbourg.
mr president, i wanted to make a comment on the alleged attempt to evacuate parliament last week in brussels. i think that something was done that was out of line with the rules, because nobody went into the rooms to warn us, to say that we had to leave, that we had to evacuate and that outside parliament each of us was free to do what we wanted. so i would like to know how much money this parliament spends each year on evacuation rules and on the security of parliament. at the very least, i expect a more ironclad set of rules from an institution of this kind.
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr koppa's report is extremely timely because it really presupposes and falls at a stage where the discussion on palestine is an important discussion. the opening of these trade exchanges puts a decisive strain on the use of this country as a potential market - whereas up to now we exported 50 million euros to palestine and imported only 6 million euros - but it puts this country in a position, outside the control of israel, to exercise an export role towards europe, which we hope can really help to change the fate of the palestinian people in particular. that is why i voted in favour of this report with great conviction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption of this report because it has the great merit of combining european programmes relating to research, competitiveness and technological innovation with the structural and cohesion funds for the same areas. this is a necessary step forward in the reorganisation of existing instruments and programmes, which aims to define a new long-term strategic policy. strengthening convergence, consolidation and the union's overall competitiveness, based on a cooperative model, are elements of the response to economic recovery and a development model based on sustainable growth and increased employment creation. proposing a common framework despite the obvious differences in the european context is a unique opportunity to strengthen the european research area and to define a clear convergence strategy. this will enable us to restore the right balance in terms of access and participation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully supported mrs matias' report because it combines the many factors which will have to promote and implement future innovative processes. scientific research must play the strategic role of finding cures and solutions to the problems of european citizens, and innovation must translate these results into the operational reality closest to us. this is particularly true of agriculture. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i wanted to stress the role that research in the agricultural sector should play, aimed not only at obtaining results in the laboratory but also and above all at transferring its effects to the field, to the benefit of farmers and all agricultural stakeholders. we still need to invest in human resources as distribution, training and consultancy services are essential elements to promote knowledge-based growth in agricultural and agri-food enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is an important step forward. research and innovation are essential for development and economic growth. it is therefore a matter of priority to propose a common framework for the reorganisation of existing instruments and programmes. europe, despite being the richest macro-region in the world, has not invested adequately in research, development and innovation. it is enough to say that the united states and japan have invested considerably more in this area. and so we must run, we must break down the inequalities that remain between the different european countries. only in this way will it be possible to avoid the more advanced countries in terms of science and technology continuing to benefit to a greater extent from existing programmes at european level. i therefore stress the need to reorganise existing instruments and programmes and to create new ones, so as to make possible a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth, bearing in mind the objectives of stability, economic convergence and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the preparation of the common strategic framework for the financing of research and innovation is one of the greatest opportunities for development and the european economy. it is a question of acting on the lever that can really trigger a moment of growth and also of new skilled employment, such as that of researchers and young people who are devoted to the new opportunities of innovation and technology and related professions. one observation that emerges from this work is that we must increasingly emphasize in europe research and innovation that leads to practical application, that leads to the creation of new businesses, that leads to new patents and that does not remain pure basic research, pure knowledge, important, yes, but not such as to really trigger the spring of development. the second point is the relationship with local authorities, regions and territories, which are also an important tool for planning in the territory and for the meeting between research, universities, centres of excellence and businesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome mrs cavada's report and i believe that it deals with a very important and very topical subject: the question of the future of the european union. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget. in times of crisis, unfortunately, there is always a tendency to sacrifice a little bit of everything in the spending on culture, education and social affairs, and above all there is a tendency to adopt a conservative attitude, which is certainly not to be supported. this report gives substance to a concern expressed by a large group of representatives of parents of pupils in european schools who also addressed the committee on petitions, precisely because they had the feeling that the budgetary manoeuvre would not include provisions to accompany the new programme for european schools. the report certainly has a clever plan to try to respond positively to the concerns of the people concerned and at the same time to give a solid base to the policy of the european institutions. the european school and the european schools are a frontier which this parliament and the european institutions have set for all of us. this policy, on the other hand, risks closing the horizon of european training for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european schools were set up with the aim of ensuring access to education in their mother tongue for the children of staff of the european institutions who are called upon to work and live abroad in a cultural context different from that of their country of origin. the first european school was set up in luxembourg in 1953 on the initiative of a group of civil servants. over the years, in view of the positive aspects of this form of education, as many as 14 european schools have been set up in the various member states. while recognising that the european school system is a necessity rather than a luxury, it is clear that more than 50 years after the creation of the first european school, this system may be outdated and must be adapted and adapted to new economic and social needs. i therefore voted in favour of mr cavada's text, which calls for the european union to be more involved in supporting and coordinating the action of the member states in developing and improving the european school system. and we know that investing in education means investing in the future of our young europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report clearly shows the difficulty many european regions have in managing the structural funds made available to the union through cohesion policies. we often find ourselves in a maze in which, if the regions manage to manage these funds, it is often the national governments who then have difficulty in activating the cofinancing funds. so sometimes it's the dog biting its tail: we are therefore unable - as has recently been the case in our own country, italy - to spend the funds which we consider to be essential for growth and european cohesion. i therefore voted in favour of this report, but i believe that we must speed up the adoption of the new economic programming cycle for 2014-2020 in order to allow individual european states and regions to equip themselves in time. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this could be a way forward, so i voted in favour, but i think that further steps must be taken to ensure that european funds are actually spent in the interests of the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i have supported this report, i think it is a very good report. what mr theurer has done is a reconnaissance exercise which will certainly also serve the imminent legislative effort which the regi committee is undertaking with regard to the new regulation on the funds. the problems highlighted are many and varied, just as the absorption capacity of individual states is different, as the rapporteur points out, because each one shows different performances with regard to the volume of expenditure and therefore its efficiency and effectiveness. i believe that of the nine problems highlighted in this report, the two which require more attention are, firstly, the problem of programming time, as mr antoniozzi has also pointed out, and secondly, the problem of controls. controls that indicate that member states are focusing more on procedures than on objectives. we should instead be pushing ourselves towards the objectives in order to achieve effective and efficient performance, and to do this i reiterate my proposal, which i try to point out to this institution at every useful opportunity, which is the one concerning the possibility of replacing contributions with tax levies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the dramatic increase in natural disasters both inside and outside the european union, we are increasingly called upon to intervene and ensure a rapid and effective response, as provided for by the new legal basis introduced by the treaty of lisbon. however, we should be able to concentrate on a preventive identification of the means available in the member states and made available by the european civil protection mechanism on a voluntary basis; this would be a major step forward from the current ad hoc response to disasters, in the sense of advance planning through the development of baseline scenarios, the assessment of member states' resources and effective emergency planning. we therefore support a further simplification of the european civil protection mechanism, which has so far proved too bureaucratic, and we support the creation of a single emergency response centre, operating 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, which, in conjunction with the member states, will decide on the means to be deployed in the event of a disaster, in order to ensure immediate and effective assistance to the victims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year we have a few thousand people who die as a result of natural disasters and tens of billions of euros are lost. now, these numbers are dramatic numbers, and not all disasters are inevitable. the report by mr gardini is timely in this respect, because it essentially identifies the two main points of the new european strategy for civil protection. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the matter. we must move from the emergency, which is requested by a state in the event of a disaster and its subsequent intervention, almost as a concession by another country, to a real strategy. i hope that the opinion voted today will be useful to the citizens of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs elisabetta gardini, and my colleagues in the envi committee, who voted almost unanimously in favour of this report. this shows that on important issues, such as humanitarian aid, different political ideologies have been overcome. the central principle of european solidarity between member states in the event of disasters is the cornerstone of this report, supported by initiatives of linking and interaction within the european union. the unification of the emergency rooms for humanitarian aid is a step in this direction. the european 24-hour emergency response centre will act as a platform for operational planning and coordination and become the central hub at european level for collecting requests for assistance in all types of disasters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen an increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, which have taken on an increasingly global dimension with disastrous consequences. in this context, a truly european response to such disasters, involving and engaging all the different levels of government in which the european union is divided, is of decisive importance. the excellent work of mr gardini, for which we voted in favour, draws attention to the importance of a simplified and rationalised civil protection mechanism, which is more and more effectively coordinated at political and operational level and not burdened by bureaucratic constraints, which provides for the sharing of resources and expertise and the optimisation of what already exists, without increasing the burden in times of austerity. greater attention to crossborder areas and geographically disadvantaged regions and the implementation of a culture of prevention are complementary tools to this new approach to ensure a rapid, fast and effective response to all possible future needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent decades the exponential increase in the number of natural disasters has caused the death of tens of thousands of people in various parts of the world. last year, in the committee on development, i followed the report on the european union's disaster response capacity, which showed how much more could be done to ensure a coordinated european union response to the increase in earthquakes, floods and tsunamis. the european union's response to the earthquake in haiti, for example, has clearly demonstrated the complexity of existing instruments and procedures. although the member states and the community institutions acted promptly in terms of sending humanitarian aid, the management of the crisis raised a number of problems in terms of efficiency, coordination and transparency. for this reason, i voted in favour of the text by mrs elisabetta gardini, who calls for greater efficiency in all phases of disaster management, greater coordination between the parties involved and simplification to avoid unnecessary duplication and loss of time which would impede the provision of rapid and effective aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is only a good initiative, but i believe that it will be a matter of building a european policy on tourism. the european brand is a good idea, but i want to focus on two issues: there is no tourism, let us say, of the sea or of the coast without a policy of coastal planning. i believe that the time has come for europe, precisely to protect this important sector, to produce an initiative in which the conception of the sea, the conception of the coasts is not limited to a kind of urban planning that ends on the wet and dry and does not involve the sea as a whole. i believe that an integrated policy in this respect is useful, as will be the need to build on everything that lies behind the claims of rural tourism: rural tourism can be a great source of income for disadvantaged areas, for areas where there is no longer any work, where it is important instead that we do not continue with depopulation and there is human settlement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and if you do tourism in rural areas, it might mean paying less in taxes, and maybe that really creates a real opportunity for the tourism resource and for the people who live in those areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr carlo fidanza for the excellent work he has done, with the european parliament's vote today in favour of the launch of a new common framework for european tourism, in line with the new powers introduced by the lisbon treaty. the emphasis on the importance of the quality of the tourist service offered as a discriminating variable in the choice of the tourist was a timely decision to increase the competitiveness of the european tourism industry. niche tourism, religious, thermal, mountain and rural tourism, etc. must be encouraged through targeted actions to make it a tourism of quality and quantity. i hope that the harmonization of the classification systems for accommodation establishments will continue so that certain quality standards can be defined for all the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr fidanza on his work, which is logically part of the action taken and promoted at community level in the field of tourism, after the lisbon treaty gave the eu new powers in this field. i share and i want to emphasize the affirmation of the importance of europe as a single destination for certified and quality tourism, and the desire to promote this idea by translating it into action at the level of structures, allocation of resources, financing, coordination of actions between the various levels of government in the countries of the union. this approach should be encouraged and rewarded, since the sector in question, with its implications in terms of the percentage of gdp produced, employment and new opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises, and attention to the protection and enhancement of the environment, is in a position to develop and thus to meet the main challenges of the present. for all these reasons, i regard this report as a positive step and an important signal in the direction of promoting a european tourism policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr koch because i appreciated its timely approach in that it calls for a concrete and detailed commitment from the commission to road safety, including the development of the models proposed through a new comprehensive action plan. a plan containing detailed measures, clear timelines and means of monitoring, to monitor its efficiency and a mid-term evaluation. i did not, however, support the idea of appointing a european union road safety coordinator, which in my view would risk duplicating responsibilities and creating a mechanism that would be too bureaucratic. it is obvious that in order to achieve the target of halving the number of road deaths by 2020, an economic commitment is also needed, which at present seems difficult to achieve. in conclusion, however, i regret that the committee on transport and tourism was not courageous enough and did not have the ambition to accept a complete harmonisation of the rules which are important for road safety, such as the uniformity of the european union's direction of travel also in england, great britain and malta, as in an amendment which i had proposed but which the commission did not feel it had to accept.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report shows that the social costs of road accidents are enormous, estimated at some eur 130 billion a year. the proposals of mr koch are in the right direction, and i particularly agree with the proposal to set up a road safety coordinator. however, i think that much more ambitious objectives and measures need to be defined than have been proposed so far by the european commission, but above all i think that the european parliament must make its voice heard in relation to the commission. we cannot accept that the european union budget for road safety measures has been drastically reduced in recent years, and so it is our duty to ensure that this trend is reversed as soon as possible and that more funds can be allocated to road safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three small points: we need more europe here too. i think it is inevitable that on some subjects there is indeed an attitude in which not only is more europe desired, but more europe is built. more europe means, for example, that we should really start thinking about a common road police force, with identical rules in the field of safety. more europe means having a european training policy, not simply delegating this to the individual states, but building, for example, a real training policy for schools, for young people, even for the categories that are a little more at risk. more europe means having common tools in cars to improve safety, alcohol and sleeping protection - i believe that this is a timely strategy to build with car companies and european car manufacturing. i think that if all this falls within the framework of the conviction of a common policy, i really think that perhaps conditions will improve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report deals with the subject of global food security: it means that this issue is not just about hunger in the world or in the poorest countries, but that the issue of food supply affects all communities, even those in the most developed countries. i draw some essential lines of coherence between european policies and this objective of global food security, because we are an institution that preaches very well, but is often not consistent in its choices. i just want to outline three other innovative titles that i think we should develop more. first of all: the food supply is now threatened by price volatility, because of food speculation that must be contained or prevented, derivatives, etc. secondly: the issue of land grabbing, land grabbing, which must be the subject, i think, of some form of treaty or negotiation, because it is not only the democracy but also the survival of many peoples at risk. thirdly: the consistency between energy supply and energy policies. we cannot, in order to produce new energy, prevent the production of food for the peoples of the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted strongly in favour of this report by mr zimmer, first of all for a purely political reason, because i think it is necessary to put this great question of food security back at the centre of the initiatives of the whole european union. it is not just and solely about helping developing countries to deal more effectively with this issue, but the food crisis - with demand for agricultural products expected to increase by over 70% by 2050 - is a major issue which, if not tackled in time and with determination, will become one of the main threats, if not the most important threat, to stability, peace and even democracy, as we have seen. i therefore believe that it is essential that the whole of the european union, together with the member states, should make all the necessary efforts, starting with adequate economic investment, as indicated in the report, in this direction to tackle this great issue seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the wto and the many multilateral and bilateral initiatives, world trade has experienced a real expansion in recent years. however, if in 2000, when the lisbon strategy was adopted, the european union still accounted for 25% of world production, it is estimated that its share in 2020 will not exceed 18%. at the same time, developing and emerging countries have increasingly integrated themselves into international trade and have become the real new engines of the world economy. this was particularly evident during the crisis of 2008-2009, when it was primarily emerging countries that played a stabilising role in a time of widespread financial crisis. the european union cannot ignore the fact that population growth is following a reversal of trend in the union. the population of the developing countries continues to increase rapidly, and this will also have an impact on their economic situation. we therefore urge the commission to make a more careful analysis and to prepare forecasts which take account of the current realities of the world economy and the present situation in the european union, as well as the likely future changes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the estimates in mr caspary's report on the forecasts for gdp growth in the european union and for exports are really discouraging. we cannot continue to plan our trade strategy on the assumption that the status quo will continue in the current international trade environment. the overall europe strategy has been a failure and i think the european commission should look into the causes behind it: we need critical and detailed analysis, but above all a global vision of how to tackle the economic challenges of the future. the trade policy must be coordinated with the other economic policies of the european union, but above all it must be accompanied by a parallel policy capable of countering the phenomenon of demographic decline.
in writing. - i have spoken out against this document on the liberalization of the entry of palestinian agricultural products into the eu. first, the document specifies that the primary purpose of the eu-palestinian authority agreement is to support the development of the palestinian economy itself. given that in recent years the palestinian territories have become the scene of increasing discrimination and violence against christians in palestine, i believe that any eu aid to the palestinian economy could only be acceptable if it was guided by a rigid conditionality mechanism which would make such aid subject to effective protection of the rights of the christian minority. in addition, the entry of palestinian agricultural products would entail probable health risks, given the difficulties in ascertaining the production methods of the products in question. i therefore chose to vote against.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the draft agreement with palestine on the liberalization of agricultural and fisheries trade. from the very beginning of the constitution of our union we have tried to create open markets, with no problems of circulation, so that the whole world or almost the whole world could enjoy different products. this customs exemption, which is intended to help the palestinian economy develop, will lead us increasingly to a state of interconnection which will certainly be successful. i hope that this agreement will help the peace process. peaceful coexistence in the area is essential and i hope that the revenues which the palestinians will obtain from this agreement will be used to support the local economy and benefit the people by building social structures which will promote the peace and democratization process.
in writing. - i congratulate mr koppa on his excellent work. the eu-palestine authority trade agreement will help to strengthen the palestinian economy, allowing the west bank and gaza to export agricultural and fishery products to the eu from 2012. the agreement guarantees direct access to the european market, duty-free and generally without quotas, for agricultural products and fishery products from the west bank and the gaza strip, and access to palestinian markets for certain european products. the agreement offers an opportunity to the palestinian people and represents a first step towards the development of a nation. the direct opening of european markets to palestinian products, which has so far been under the direct control of the israeli authorities, will contribute to the development of palestinian trade and the expansion of their economy.
in writing. − in 2005, in accordance with the rabat roadmap, the european council authorised the commission to conduct negotiations with several mediterranean countries in order to establish the conditions for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products. the palestinian authority was one of these countries. the negotiations, which started in may 2010, were concluded in december 2010 and the final agreement was signed in april 2011. the agreement will certainly help to strengthen the palestinian economy, which is currently in crisis. the future of the region depends on improved economic development and trade can be a development mechanism that can reduce poverty and create political stability. opening the european market to palestinian products is only the first step in building a palestinian state in the logic of a two-state solution and palestinian economic development.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to justify my vote against the report by stressing that our delegation has always opposed the use of trade policy for humanitarian purposes, preferring by far more practical aid involving different economic sectors and all the member states. the reservation to the liberalization of the entry of agricultural and fishery products from palestine is not about the possible reduction of trade in economic terms, but arises from concern about phytosanitary requirements and production and selection procedures for typical products from that area.
in writing. - at a very important historical and political moment for the middle east, with the united nations engaged in discussions on the possible recognition of the palestinian state, i welcomed mr koppa's report on trade in agricultural and fishery products between the european union and palestine. the agreement, which excludes certain products including fruit and flowers, is designed to facilitate greater circulation on european markets for agricultural and fishery products originating in the palestinian territories and should allow the development of these economic activities which are important for this troubled geopolitical area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because, as a member of the delegation to the eu-mexico joint parliamentary committee, i am very pleased that relations between these two economies are becoming closer. the approximately 2.5 million people and 90 000 tonnes travelling between these two areas each year is a sign of considerable economic proximity, which is now being fulfilled in some sectors where there were previously gaps. i am referring in particular to those parts of the recommendation which extend to the whole of the eu agreements which previously concerned only the individual member state, such as security and designation. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs ţicău's report on the agreement between the eu and mexico on certain aspects of air transport. mexico represents a significant economic opportunity for the member states and a future investment opportunity. in 2009, some 2.5 million european passengers chose mexico as their destination. that is why an agreement on air transport has a very important specific weight also in the context of completing agreements with other countries of the american continent. this agreement represents an important first step towards strengthening trade policies aimed at increasing trade between the member states and mexico.
in writing. - the text of the agreement on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and the united mexican states certainly seems to me to be an important step towards strengthening eu-mexico relations in this area. i therefore vote in favour of mrs ţicău's report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what we have just voted, i think it is right that the relationship between the airlines of the eu and those of the mexican countries should be reviewed. i say this because this country is an important market for eu carriers and i do not exclude the possibility that an even more binding agreement on this matter could be concluded in due course. the fact that there was previously no clause binding bilateral agreements between member states and this country across the atlantic has led to blockages and violations of community rules, in particular article 49 tfeu, so i think that the signing of this decision is right and essential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential that, in order to avoid discrimination between the different european air carriers, there should be only one designation clause, replacing the traditional ones of each member state. the aim is to grant all european carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the member state which has signed the bilateral agreement and mexico, which in this sense represents a strategic market for the eu. this 'horizontal agreement' will now provide a sound legal basis for relations with that country in the field of air transport.
in writing. − following the court of justice's ruling in 2002 that traditional designation clauses in bilateral agreements in the field of international air transport concluded by member states were in breach of eu law, the commission negotiated a series of agreements with the aim of re-establishing a sound legal basis for eu-third country relations in the field of air services. mexico is an important market for eu carriers, with some two and a half million passengers travelling from europe to the central american country: i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, which, after those already reached with the usa, canada and brazil, among others, completes the series of agreements on open airspace between the eu and the americas.
in writing. - i have chosen to vote in favour of this document on the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde, which is intended to allow european vessels to fish in the republic's waters. the document stresses the need to maintain transparency and clarity on the implementation of the agreement, in particular by carrying out checks on the management of financial contributions to the republic of cape verde and by regularly updating parliament on developments in this regard. i therefore believe that the document is acceptable and that is why i have chosen to speak in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gallagher report because i am a firm believer in fisheries partnership agreements: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. in the specific case of the text voted today, cape verde is among the african countries with the best results in terms of political, economic and social development and although its fisheries resources are not significant, they include, however, commercially important species among the migratory ones such as tuna, pelagic fish and lobsters. for tuna in particular, no more than 0,2% of the catches of the fish stocks concerned are taken and the impact of tuna fishing opportunities on sustainability is therefore minimal. the agreement has had a positive impact on institutional capacity building in the cape verdean archipelago, providing fishing equipment and 113 jobs. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to renew it. for europe, the conclusion of the new protocol will help to maintain continuity in the fisheries areas covered by the agreements and to ensure the viability of european industries.
in writing. - i am in favour of agreement on the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the protocol strengthens the partnership with an important peripheral region and fully meets the european union's fisheries needs to keep our industries, whose vessels pass through the western region of africa, strong.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the agreement on fisheries and relations between the eu and cape verde because i believe that the agreement reached is beneficial and can benefit both parties. the fact that there has been a renewal of the old one, which expired in august 2011, can only confirm the argument that it creates favourable and profitable conditions that strengthen both parties; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because it updates the parameters for fishing and for financial compensation for member states in the territorial waters of cape verde. i also welcome the fact that the new protocol contains specific clauses which may also lead to the suspension of any financial compensation in the event of a violation of fundamental human rights. this document will also strengthen cape verde's capacity to combat illegal fishing, in particular by improving the infrastructure for monitoring and control of fishing activities, with a significant impact on the country's financial and political stability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr gallagher on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and cape verde. i am not only the vice-chairman of the committee on development, but also a member of the delegation for relations with the acp countries, and i am therefore aware of the importance of such agreements for developing countries. in this particular case, the european union is committing itself, with immediate effect, to pay an annual financial contribution of eur 1 305 000 for three years in exchange for the possibility of fishing tuna, which is abundant in cape verdean waters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am in favour of greater integration, in practice, between the european and the american economies. we are talking about the two largest markets in the world, with a very high level of exchange, and with a commonality of some basic values. the latter make it convenient and useful to share those policies which form the background to further increase in trade and mutual direct investment. in a sector such as civil aviation, where the us and the eu represent a significant share of world trade and international cooperation is an essential requirement for the maintenance of services, it makes no sense to raise walls but, on the contrary, the council is right to focus on cooperation, especially in an area such as research and development, which is itself favourably affected by spillovers.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, research and development are the cornerstones of the future, also in the field of civil aviation, to ensure greater safety for travellers, comfort and speed in transport with non-european countries. in this case, the memorandum of cooperation between the united states and the european union, which i voted in favour of, allows for an exchange of innovative projects, research and programmes, supplemented by new technical equipment and qualified personnel through research coordination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr reul's text on the memorandum of cooperation between the european union and the united states, which, as a result of a series of negotiations, lays down the conditions for mutual cooperation in promoting research and development in civil aviation. the coordination of research programmes and projects, the exchange of technical and scientific personnel (as well as information of common interest such as research results and publications), and the carrying out of joint analyses are the means necessary to ensure fruitful cooperation and to achieve the objectives which are the basis of the memorandum.
in writing. the measure is a logical complement to the regulation on the crossborder movement of euro currency. it is right to ensure that countries which are about to join the euro area, not just those which are already part of it, also incorporate into their legal systems precise regulations and requirements concerning the professional qualifications of staff involved in the crossborder transport of currency, as well as those concerning the security of euro transport and the means of deterring assaults and robberies during transport. the period before a member state joins the euro is particularly risky for the security of currency transport, given the large amount of cash that needs to be transported in the country that is about to adopt the euro as its national currency and the proposed measures seem necessary and appropriate. i therefore vote in favour of parliament's recommendation.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to simplify the circulation of coins and banknotes between the euro area member states. we think the proposal is fairly balanced because it emphasizes that the member states are directly responsible for the implementation of the revision of the safety rules. however, we must all work to improve the safety of transport in europe and the experience of cross-border hauliers. we also support the adoption of an intelligent system for neutralising banknotes. we are also calling on the commission to consult the social partners further.
in writing. − it is clear that with the enlargement of the euro area, the scope of this regulation needs to be extended to meet the increased need for transporting euro before that deadline. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the text on extending the scope of the regulation on the professional crossborder transport of euro cash by road between member states because it favours currency exchange. it is also a good omen for the future accession to the euro of those countries which are in the union but have not yet joined the single currency, which has proved to be strong and, during this crisis, the only weapon against further speculation.
in writing. mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the financing of research and innovation in the european union, as these are crucial sectors which are essential for sustainable development and for the growth of our european economy. europe is among the richest regions in the world but investment in research and development and innovation, despite having increased in recent years, has not led to a real increase in cohesion between member states. inequalities persist and are accentuated between the more advanced countries, from the scientific and technological point of view, and the newly acceding countries and peripheral economies which currently benefit from fewer of the programmes existing at european level. we must therefore stimulate a reorganization of existing programmes and financing in order to create an efficient strategy at all levels, without forgetting the fundamental importance of research and innovation for our smes, for employment, for the reduction of poverty and for promoting our image in the world.
in writing. − research and innovation, as has been repeatedly stated, are essential tools for consolidating a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth. this is all the more important in the present context of the continuing economic and social crisis. europe is the richest region in the world, but this has not yet meant global investment in research, development and innovation commensurate with this condition. in the united states, japan and the bric countries, investment was significantly higher. the commission published a green paper to define a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding for the period after 2013, combining the european programmes and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme with the structural funds for research and innovation. proposing a common framework for this set of funding instruments and programmes, despite the different levels of funding and rooting in the european context, represents, in my view, an opportunity to strengthen the european research area. i believe, however, that a path towards research excellence cannot be undertaken without the necessary resources and without attention to simplification and reduction of the bureaucratic and administrative costs associated with it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the matias report on the financing of research and innovation because i am deeply convinced that these two aspects represent fundamental and indispensable objectives for the european union if we are to remain competitive on the international scene. i think it is important that parliament has been able to express itself in such a coordinated way on a response to the green paper and i hope that the european commission will be able to take these inputs into account in a meaningful way in the legislative proposal it will present by the end of the year. i think it is important to refer to the simplification of bureaucratic procedures which is necessary to make the measures we are going to adopt really effective and efficient, because only then will they be really useful to the citizens. i also appreciate the reference to the importance of involving industry, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, perhaps by increasing public-private partnerships, encouraging the financing of research projects which then have concrete benefits. finally, i share the recognition of the role of local authorities, particularly the regions, as a point of contact and stimulus between the various actors in research and innovation.
in writing. - i fully agree with the objectives of the report. it is important to consider coordination between research and innovation programmes, strengthening the role of regional/local governments; the simplification of the procedures necessary to update the programme priorities; the allocation of a budget share to smes made up of young people and women entrepreneurs; and the link with the standard-setting system. i would like to emphasize in particular the innovation voucher (assessment of an experiment based on the accreditation/voucher principle) because it brings companies closer to the issues of technological development and innovation, creating a system in which the various actors - companies, universities, research centres, institutions - actively participate in the implementation of innovative processes. this mechanism could provide vouchers to innovative enterprises that can be spent at accredited research centres or public/private bodies, supporting the development of innovation. vouchers should not be subject to reporting obligations by the beneficiaries, because their use would be certified by the centres using the voucher itself. this would simplify procedures, supporting small and innovative firms. accreditation of centres could be achieved on a national or regional basis, and be validated by a european body (i.e. the jrc) which enhances their role, functions, and cooperation with industry.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs matias' report on research and innovation funding because the europe 2020 strategy includes the need for a common strategic framework for funding research and development. the report makes specific proposals to increase the level of funding and improve the system for allocating it. a practical example is the creation of specific accreditations which, depending on the research project submitted, offer different levels of funding to be allocated and completed in specific research centres. both public and private entities with a valid project will be able to apply for such funding.
in writing. − the european commission has published a green paper in recent months setting out a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding for the period after 2013. this document combines european programmes with the structural and cohesion funds for research and innovation. proposing a common framework for this set of instruments and funding programmes is an opportunity to strengthen the european research area and to define a proposal that can effectively coordinate this strengthening, with a clear convergence strategy. no strategy to respond to the current economic and social situation can offer guarantees on investment in research, development and innovation if inequalities and imbalances in access to available european funds persist. the text adopted today is intended to stimulate an effort to reorganise existing instruments and programmes and to create new ones, and aims to define a positive strategy for the various actors involved. research and innovation are essential tools for consolidating a strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report because it recognises research, education and innovation as essential tools for both economic recovery and job creation. to meet the challenges of the future, europe must commit itself to reorganizing current financial instruments and programmes to make them more effective at regional, national and european level. simplifying the management of research and innovation funding and reducing red tape are essential prerequisites for increasing the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises, the driving force of the european economy. we must have the courage to channel the unused funds from some regions to other virtuous regions which have asked for more than they have.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs matias, which aims to reorganise the instruments and programmes currently in operation to meet the challenges, old and new, that europe is facing. improve the effectiveness of research and innovation funding, simplify rules and procedures for accessing funding, reduce administrative burdens, assess the use of innovative financial instruments: the main proposals to improve the current system of financing research and innovation and to ensure greater stability and convergence are as follows: if inequalities and imbalances in access to available european funds persist, no strategy can be a quick and effective response to the current economic and social crisis.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the cavada report on the european schools system because they have been an excellent education and training system since the first european school opened in luxembourg. they are the only means of enabling the children of european officials to receive education in their own language and to learn about the other languages and cultures of the union in a multilingual and multicultural environment. however, the system needs to be reformed to make it more compatible with national systems and at the same time the member states must make a greater effort to meet their commitments in terms of financial support and the identification of native-language teachers, which many member states are partially failing to do, with the result that the financial support of the commission and some member states is being burdened. i think it is important that these schools take on pupils with special educational needs and improve their skills in the education of disabled pupils in order to ensure their full integration.
in writing. the european school, established in luxembourg in 1953, is a unique training experience, offering students with different mother tongues the opportunity to study on a single course. the european schools, which had over 22,000 pupils in 2010, allow children whose parents work abroad to study in their mother tongue, following a structured educational path, so as to ensure their proper reintegration, at any time, into a school in their country of origin. the project, which is a clear investment in the future of europe's young people, should therefore be evaluated, even if the economic crisis means that cuts are inevitable. i therefore support the idea of adequate funding so that teaching can continue to be entrusted to native-language teachers, despite the costs. i also call on the member states to work not only to preserve this system but also to develop this model of teaching, unique and exceptional in europe, which opens up exciting prospects for the creation of a european system of education. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that education plays a vital role in the process of growth of each individual. i fully share the desire to move towards an integrated school system which uses the 'european schools' as a vehicle for the transmission of an education geared to promoting greater student mobility between member states and greater multilingualism and multiculturalism. i would also like to stress the need to ensure that all children have the same conditions of education, and to avoid the idea that the european schools are an elite system that is not easily accessible. to this end, it is important that member states agree on the organisation of the education system and the content of teaching, while protecting the cultural and linguistic identities of the various students.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european schools are a resource for the international education system and an investment in the future of the community as a whole. it is with a view to the future and with the absolute conviction that action must be taken as soon as possible on this subject that i have supported mr cavada's text. the crisis we are experiencing requires us to make often difficult choices in areas that are important for boosting economic growth. school education and the european school system are among the issues which we must defend and protect even in difficult times. it is for this reason that i believe that this text is intended to make the educational path of young europeans less difficult, in accordance with the principles of preserving one's own identity and being open to european cultures, symbols of that unity in our diversity.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, mr cavada's report, for which i voted in favour, not only sets out the present situation of european school education but also pursues a more far-reaching but nobly noble objective, namely the creation of a european school system. the current reforms to the european schools system are aimed at simplifying access to education across borders. by broadening access to studying across borders, mobility, interculturality, european identity and solidarity are encouraged. in summary, the current assessment of the european school system within the member states is positive and is able to lay the foundations for a european school that defines a european identity for the citizens of the future.
in writing. the european schools were set up to ensure that the children of staff of the european institutions who are called upon to work and live abroad in a different cultural context have access to education in their mother tongue, so that they can return to a school in their home country at any time. they are therefore a necessity, not a luxury. more than 50 years after the creation of the first european school, it is clear that the concept on which they are based must be developed and adapted to new economic and social needs. however, this concept must remain an inspirational model for national education systems, so as to enhance european citizenship and promote the development of mobility. although the financial crisis imposes some budget cuts, it is essential to look at the situation more as an investment in the future of europe's young people than as a cost.
in writing. mr president, i voted in favour of mr theurer's report on the absorption of the structural and cohesion funds. the ability of a member state to use its financial resources effectively and efficiently remains essential to ensure that it can participate more fully in the economic and social cohesion pursued through the resources available through eu funds. i think that coordination between the various structural and cohesion funds should be strengthened, by improving the exchange of good practice between the member states in the management and implementation of projects, and by optimising the allocation of funds. in addition, simplification of the rules and procedures for accessing the structural funds is an essential condition for smes to be able to access the funds. the principles of the small business act should therefore be applied at all decision-making levels in the definition of investment priorities and management, audit and control procedures to ensure better absorption of funds.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic, social and territorial cohesion policy is one of the fundamental pillars of coexistence in the eu, as it promotes the growth of areas with development difficulties in order to be able to converge and compete on an equal footing with the more developed ones. experience gained during the current programming period also shows that the effective recovery of development backlog is facilitated by simplification of rules and processes, while strictly pursuing the objectives, and by improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of management and control systems. this is done in the context of a broad and effective involvement of the entire institutional, economic and social partnership at the various territorial levels in order to identify the specific and operational strategies and objectives to be pursued. the commission will also be proposing a new approach to the financing of the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the cohesion fund, which will be based on the principle of subsidiarity. i believe that the report i helped to adopt contains these suggestions.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the question of the absorption of the structural funds has been one of the main problems of eu cohesion policy for some 20 years now. the rules governing the structural and cohesion funds were too slow and difficult to follow and often easy to make mistakes, which made it more difficult to allocate funds and then to implement them. i believe that the simplification proposal, which i supported, can lead to a higher absorption rate by improving the effective effectiveness of the funds allocated to a union cohesion policy well targeted towards the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because since the end of the 1990s the absorption of the structural funds has always been one of the main problems hindering the implementation of eu cohesion policy. it is necessary to ensure that the rules governing the disbursement of these funds are simplified as soon as possible, so that higher absorption rates, fewer errors and greater efficiency can be achieved. the legality and transparency of eu spending requires first of all a better balance between rules and procedures, which can ensure a cohesion policy geared to performance and effectiveness.
in writing. − the absorption of the structural and cohesion funds has in the past created more than one problem for the implementation of cohesion policy within the european union, whereas many member states, especially during the first years after accession, have difficulties in this process. the theurer report, for which i voted in favour today, analyses the problems and their causes, seeking to draw up useful suggestions and proposals for developing the future cohesion policy of the union in a positive way. i particularly share the view that the member states should pay more attention to the preparation of projects, including the proper management of the structural and cohesion funds. there should also be more active cooperation to promote the exchange of best practice between member states and harmonisation of rules and procedures, with simplified enforcement systems compared to those currently in place.
in writing. - mr president, i support mrs gardini's report and the call on the commission to improve the european response to disasters. the increasing pace of climate change and the depletion of natural resources are increasingly affecting different countries and regions of the world, and the european union is certainly not exempt from the many risks that arise from this. fortunately, the european union has the main tools to respond to disasters, although these are still limited to systematic scenarios and protocols of action that make it rigid to deploy them in other contexts. i hope that concrete consideration will be given to the possibility of creating a european emergency response centre, a nerve centre for the timely and effective coordination of assistance, and also the creation of a european civil protection force to bring together the resources and capabilities of all the member states.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it underlines the vital need to reinforce the coordination of the response to disasters affecting the european union, both within and outside its borders. unfortunately in the past years there has been a dramatic increase in the number and severity of these natural and man-made disasters affecting the union and its citizens, as well as other countries and regions around the world. this text highlights the need to rationalise and simplify the functioning of current european disaster response and reassert that disaster preparation, prevention and response cannot be dissociated from each other. i also would like to stress that preventing disasters is often more cost-effective than combating them. for this reason it is fundamental to complement the policy for enhancing the eu’s emergency reaction capacity by stepping up the eu’s and member states’ risk prediction and prevention policies. in order to do so the commission should prepare a comprehensive and innovative eu strategy on disaster risk reduction.
in writing. - the times we live in are characterised by an exponential increase in catastrophes: last year europe faced a series of very serious disasters, including flash floods and rare wildfires. over the past 20 years, disasters in europe have affected more than 29 million citizens and caused economic losses of €211 billion. in the context of the dramatic increase in natural disasters, i share the rapporteur's call for greater efficiency in all phases of the european disaster management cycle, including prevention, preparedness, response and recovery, while optimising economic resources. the lisbon treaty itself introduces a new legal basis for civil protection to ensure a rapid response to disasters occurring in the eu or beyond its borders. i also hope that the european civil protection mechanism will be simplified, which i think is too bureaucratic. i welcome the creation of a 24-hour emergency response centre which, in conjunction with the member states, will decide on the means to be deployed in the event of a disaster, in order to ensure immediate and effective assistance to the victims.
in writing. - i think that the report in question on strengthening the european response to disasters is certainly agreeable and that is why i voted in favour. the natural disasters which have recently struck the north, and the veneto region in particular, have underlined the urgent need to improve european mechanisms for the protection and assistance of victims of such events and to ensure that the implementation of such mechanisms is timely and not hampered by bureaucratic errors. these priorities are well interpreted by the document in question, which explicitly calls for a substantial reduction in the bureaucratic processes involved in the management of victim assistance and is therefore fully compatible. my vote was therefore in favour.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, mrs gardini, for the important report she has presented, which has brought to the attention of this house a subject of the greatest relevance to our time and for which i voted in favour. europe has been confronted by a steady increase in natural disasters, some of them very serious: sudden and increasingly frequent floods, storms and forest fires which, over the last 20 years, have caused the death of more than 90,000 people, affected more than 29 million individuals and caused economic losses of eur 221 billion. in the face of these numbers, the eu must respond more effectively at all stages of disaster management: preparation, prevention and response, and then implementing the preventive identification of existing means in the member states made available by the european civil protection mechanism on a voluntary basis. i also hope, in agreement with the rapporteur, that the european civil protection mechanism will be simplified and that a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week emergency response centre will be set up. that centre should decide, in consultation with the member states, on the means to be deployed in the event of a disaster in order to ensure and provide coordinated, immediate and effective assistance to the affected populations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gardini report on european disaster response because it represents an important step towards improving speed and efficiency in crisis situations. this requires a shift from ad hoc response after an emergency has occurred to advance planning where the union identifies in advance the means that member states will be able to make available in order to coordinate efforts. i welcome the desire to strengthen cooperation between the member states, to underline the importance of solidarity within the union and the exchange of experience and expertise in the various fields. the eu budget must also include appropriations to anticipate disasters, so that we are not caught off guard and so that rescue and recovery operations are facilitated. i also appreciate the decision to set up a centre of operations which will be able to link and coordinate the existing units at national level, as it very often happens that disasters occur which require wider responses than those which could be provided by individual states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to make the role of civil protection and humanitarian assistance more effective in an era of a marked increase in the number of natural disasters. i fully share the wish for increased integration of the management phases of natural disasters, such as the identification of the resources needed to respond quickly and effectively to such events and the redefinition of the prevention and protection systems of the various disasters. it is also important to encourage cooperation between the member states of the european union so as to enhance the ability to react jointly in the future. coordination becomes essential in cases where the affected states have insufficient resources and where each state's spending capacity is limited as a result of the recent economic crisis. i am therefore confident that a joint effort will be made towards an integrated system of sharing resources, simplification of processes, and preparation and prevention activities on the ground.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the natural disasters which have continued to strike our planet in recent years require us to reflect carefully on the methods and effectiveness of intervention and on the means of prevention. the text presented by mrs gardini, which i fully support, is in the direction of greater coordination in the prevention and protection of people from natural disasters. a european-wide structured and effectively coordinated civil protection service would not only allow us to deal with humanitarian crises in an efficient way, but would also allow us to redesign the investment of resources for the sector that are often wasted precisely because of a lack of coordination in the emergency response processes. the intrinsic value of this proposal is to finally also modulate the european reality in the model of response to emergencies caused by natural disasters. this involvement must involve all levels of the european institution to help prevent or deal with the calamities that have unfortunately marked and continue to represent sad pages of history in the various states of the union.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report on european response to natural disasters because i believe that civil protection plays a very important role and i am in favour of the creation of a european civil protection system capable of providing humanitarian aid and assistance, like the italian civil protection system. the timely response to the increasingly numerous and devastating natural disasters must be well organised and coordinated at european level. simplifying the rules on this is absolutely the basis for improving the efficiency of both relief and reconstruction and return to normalcy on the ground.
in writing. − climate change in recent years has led to an exponential increase in disasters. last year europe was hit by a series of very serious disasters, including sudden and widespread floods, storms and rare wildfires, not to mention the ash cloud following the eruption of the icelandic volcano. countries outside europe have also been hit by very serious disasters which have caused a great number of victims and enormous destruction. the number of disasters recorded in a year worldwide has increased fivefold over the past 35 years, to about 400 today. 90% of europeans want the eu to do more to help their country in the event of a disaster. by adopting this important document today, parliament is calling for greater efficiency at all stages of the european disaster management cycle, from prevention and preparedness to response and recovery, while optimising economic resources in times of austerity. the response should be enhanced by the prior identification of existing means in the member states made available to the european civil protection mechanism on a voluntary basis, avoiding overlapping and duplication of efforts at both the political and operational levels.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation has the advantage of reducing the fragmentation of the euro cash transport sector across borders. the simplification of national rules on crossborder transport of euro currency is intended to make it easier for currency carriers to carry out their business and for the circulation of euro notes and coins to take place. the parliament's report supplements the commission's text in important points of the legislative measure. i welcome the efforts to make the transport of currency safer, with the security systems specified in the amendments approved by my colleagues during the transition to committee. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. − the market for the transport of euro cash in the european union remains highly fragmented due to the wide divergence of national rules on the matter, which makes the provision of cross-border services very difficult for professional currency carriers. we therefore believe that these regulatory constraints should be simplified in order to allow for a better circulation of euro banknotes and coins between member states. we believe that to achieve this, we must first ensure that the rules introduced are sufficiently clear and operational for the staff involved and the state authorities. as regards the means of transporting funds, member states should be able to choose between the five means of transporting banknotes and the two means of transporting coins set out in this regulation. since the transport of funds presents specific dangers, this regulation should help to reinforce the need for public security of staff involved and the general public. to prevent attacks on vehicles used to transport funds, the use of the smart banknote neutralisation system will need to be encouraged.
in writing. - in the sensitive field of dual-use goods exports, a legislative measure at community level was needed to make the legislative and, above all, procedural landscape clearer, simpler and more harmonised. the amendment we are voting on today is also of some importance from the point of view of manufacturing industries, since 10% of goods exported by eu member states fall into the category of dual-use goods. the proposal for a vote will also involve the european parliament more closely, making future procedures for the export of dual-use goods more democratic and subject to greater scrutiny by our assembly. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr jörg leichtfried because i believe that the lisbon treaty should be interpreted in such a way as to increase transparency in relation to dual-use goods and technologies, by updating lists with increasing precision and by other actions to strengthen the eu's image and representation in international export control regimes.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the control of exports of dual-use goods, military and civilian, has been the subject of eu action for a long time and i think it is right that it should continue to be so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms industry is not left behind. we must separate military and civilian use, whereas military use is subject to special protocols and controls, the same is not true of civilian use, where we sometimes do not know what the final use of the product may be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
in writing. - having regard to the new eu competences in the field of international trade, which have come into force with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i am voting in favour of the report, as the control of dual-use items is essential for the purposes of arms non-proliferation and is carried out through preventive measures such as the imposition of export authorisation and customs registration procedures. this could be a significant step towards regulating the export market for dual-use goods by making it more transparent and democratic.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the report, which is the result of agreement with the council on the document already voted on in plenary, does not present any particular criticisms for our delegation and i agree with it. this is a measure which takes due account of the interests of the member states and, above all, its intention is to facilitate the activities of undertakings in the sector.
in writing. the beauty and vastness of europe's artistic and cultural heritage is a defining feature of the european union, a favourite destination for many tourists from all over the world. the new european tourism strategy and the articulated action programme promise a future of growth and innovation, not only for the approximately 1.8 million smes but also for young jobseekers. we have already discussed this during the last plenary session, and the data tell us that the unemployment rate in europe is around 10%, 22.7 million europeans are looking for work and 5.1 million of them are under 25 years old. the rapporteur deserves our congratulations on this strategy, which represents a potential for development in terms of employment and cultural growth, a positive boost to our economy, the promotion and consolidation of europe's image in the world and also a point in favour of territorial cohesion. everyone knows that there has been a long debate on the question of giving tourism a legal basis. it is therefore a great achievement to speak today of a new european strategy for tourism. twenty-one important actions, including vocational training, innovation, investing in quality tourism, eco-tourism and also encouraging ethical tourism, to guard against all forms of exploitation of women and children.
in writing. - i have supported this own-initiative report because it is essential for europe, which is facing an economic crisis which is not easy to resolve, to find in certain sectors, such as tourism, a source of strength for new growth. europe as the world's number one destination is the goal we must set ourselves and all this would be possible through a coordinated approach, through a framework of action that develops modern, quality, sustainable and accessible tourism. this makes the funding aspect important, both for existing funding, such as the structural funds, and for funding to be included in the 2014-2020 financial programming. as a former cultural heritage adviser in my region of sicily, i have seen how in some regions of europe it is possible to bring together different forms of tourism that cover all the seasons of the year. the continent, which is home to the majority of unesco protected sites and whose strength is based on its diversity and biodiversity, needs a new joint effort to achieve an important objective that would give breathing space in the coming years to a sector that needs to be renewed in line with the needs of the new world market.
in writing. - tourism is a crucial sector: it is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the european union, contributes 12% of total employment and is an essential tool for strengthening, disseminating and promoting europe's image in the world. this sector, in addition to promoting the integration and development of the less developed regions, is able to reconcile growth, sustainable and ethical development in eu countries. although tourism has always been a part of community policies, the recent lisbon treaty has explicitly provided for the eu's competence to coordinate member states' actions in this area. i believe that investment in innovation and ict is one of the essential elements to make a real contribution to increasing the competitiveness of european tourism businesses, particularly in a context such as the present one in which it is necessary to meet the demand of a clientele increasingly oriented towards the use of the internet and new technologies. finally, a new and ambitious tourism policy cannot be achieved without adequate funding and training of human resources. to this end, i believe that european programmes are essential for the development of new vocational skills among young people, qualifications for which must be guaranteed appropriate recognition between the various member states.
in writing. the objective set out in the legislative resolution put to the vote is important and deserves our full attention: tourism is a major economic sector throughout the continent, particularly in italy and in regions such as veneto, where millions and millions of people come every year to admire the landscapes, our cities and spend time in places that have always been synonymous with beauty, history and culture. europe can make more money from tourism than it does now, even though it is already, according to statistics, the world's leading destination for tourist flows. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make use of them. in general, however, this is a text which is widely shared, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that, at a time of such difficulty for the western economy, it is necessary to support with conviction initiatives aimed at reviving and defending our economy, as proposed by the rapporteur, mr fidanza. the tourism sector is one of the pillars of our economic system: it generates 12% of total employment and 12% of gdp each year and for this reason, it must be supported by shared policies. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to develop and promote existing vocational and university training experiences and to establish appropriate links with the business world, which requires greater investment in innovation and ict. i also support the creation of the pilot project to encourage the participation of micro-enterprises and smes in the digital supply chain, so that they can have access to new advanced technologies to increase their competitiveness. finally, i believe it is essential to set up the internet portal www.visiteurope.com: if improved, including the presence of all the official eu languages and the main non-eu languages, it can become a real tourism platform.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of mr fidanza's report on tourism in europe, because i believe that it represents one of the greatest potential resources of our continent. the cultural heritage of our countries must be properly valued, both for its preservation and for the full development of its economic, employment and social utility. tourism must be considered an integral part of european industrial policy and innovation policy, as it is a strategic objective. i therefore support the proposal to focus on quality, through actions aimed at ensuring a uniform standard, so that europe continues to assert itself as the world's leading tourist destination. i welcome the call for support for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main players in this sector, and also the need to develop eco-sustainable tourism, which is committed to protecting the environment. i welcome the call for cooperation between the european institutions and the member states in order to coordinate activities, particularly with a view to the drawing up of a european tourist charter, as suggested in the report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have voted on today is an important start in the development of the european tourism sector and the promotion of our continent. in fact, the tourism sector is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the union, with some 1.8 million businesses involved, generating more than 5% of european gdp. in view of these developments, the establishment of a strong and competitive european tourism policy must be considered a priority by the community institutions. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. in addition, in a society that has become addicted to the web, it is important to highlight the primary importance of investing in the creation of an 'ict and tourism' platform, so that our tourism operators can grow and adapt to the new online consumer habits. finally, i hope that a more ambitious tourism policy will encourage the creation of new partnerships between businesses and closer contact between the institutions and the business world through the development of calls for proposals dedicated to tourism and the inclusion of specific programmes for smes in the sector.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new guidelines in the lisbon treaty on tourism call for new perspectives on the quality of accommodation and of service as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, which have been fully taken up by mr provan, whom i voted in favour of. tourism in european terms is a resource that must be enhanced by targeted and concrete actions that can develop in qualitative terms a sector that represents an important part of the economy of europe and the member states. to make tourism an economic and cultural driver of growth is the challenge that the current situation and constant technological developments require us to accept and overcome, also through forms of digital platforms that help the processes of knowledge of tourist destinations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr fidanza's report, which is the first real signal and political contribution that this parliament is making to the promotion of european tourism, one of the most important resources for the economy of the whole union. modernisation of infrastructure, enhancement of the artistic and cultural heritage, investment in innovation and staff training, visa policies and adequate funding: these are some of the main priorities that need to be implemented to help consolidate and strengthen this sector. the need to promote multi-faceted tourism for children, the disabled and the elderly, concentrated throughout the year, is fully shared. it is also important that the eu implements and coordinates the actions of the member states and promotes the amendment of the travel, holiday and tourist all-inclusive directive to ensure a clearer and more secure legal framework for tourists' rights.
in writing. − with the lisbon treaty, the tourism sector is gaining a new dimension in the eu system, evolving towards a new political dimension that can improve the whole sector. i congratulate mr fidanza on the work he has done on a report, which i voted for, which promotes european tourism in a way that has never been done before. if europe is the world's number one tourist destination, the new community powers in this field can only improve both in terms of an increase and an improvement in the use of community funds for tourist infrastructure and services and in terms of initiatives that can increase europe's tourist offer.
in writing. - i congratulate the honourable member on his vote today on this own-initiative report, which, although only indicative, is an important step forward in the future of tourism in europe. after the introduction of the new competences in the tourism sector by the lisbon treaty, a number of initiatives have been proposed at european and multinational level. the aim is to foster a coordinated approach to tourism-related initiatives within the eu and to define a new framework for action to increase its competitiveness and capacity for sustainable growth. today's vote is therefore a further step in the right direction towards promoting europe as a tourist destination and supporting the role of business. the large majority obtained shows that there is a cross-cutting will to overcome the natural competition between territories, to win together a global challenge.
in writing. - today's vote sends a clear signal and confirms a common will: the pilot project will be implemented in the context of the european year of tourism and the european year of tourism for the 21st century. the 21 priorities which make up the programme to be implemented are based on four essential pillars: stimulate the competitiveness of the sector, promote the development of sustainable, but at the same time responsible and quality tourism, consolidate the image and visibility of europe as a whole as a top-class tourist destination and maximise the potential of the european union's financial instruments for tourism development. it is particularly important for a country like italy, with a unique artistic and cultural heritage, to have a europe that meets the needs of tourism businesses, investing above all in the quality of the services provided and the breadth of the offer available to travellers from all over the world.
in writing. − the european union is the world's leading tourist destination for international arrivals, and this primacy needs to be strengthened by reinforcing the challenges of increased global competition and a constantly changing demand market. the tourism sector has been recognised as a specific eu competence following the lisbon treaty, thus ensuring greater coordination at european level in order to pursue common objectives aimed at improving the quality of services, contributing to sustainable development and promoting accessibility for people with disabilities not only in relation to means of transport, but also to accommodation, catering and tourism services themselves. for all these reasons, i am in favour of the report.
in writing. − one way of strengthening the european union's image in the world is also to promote its tourism, which is already europe's third largest socioeconomic activity. the tourism sector also represents a great opportunity in terms of consolidation and employment, and it is even more so when we talk about agriturismo. here the advantage is multiple: the aim is to avoid abandonment of the countryside, a serious problem in the european countryside, and to provide employment for those groups of the population who are generally the least employed (young people and women). rural tourism, the subject on which the main suggestions made by us in the agri committee in this report are based, combines the agricultural and productive aspects with the tourist attraction aspect, as well as the agricultural production aspect with the retail sale. this is another key point, because it increases the added value by selling agricultural products directly at two or three times the wholesale price, creating wealth by using the unused buildings of the farm. this is a valuable support for agricultural incomes, the development of local products and, finally, the conservation of the countryside by the restoration of abandoned rural buildings.
in writing. − to promote a coordinated approach to tourism-related initiatives within the european union and to develop a vision of quality, sustainable, year-round and accessible tourism: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the text stresses in particular that the development of the tourism sector is an essential means of strengthening, defending and promoting the european union in the world. in addition to enhancing and promoting vocational training in the sector, it is important to invest in innovation and new technologies so that the european tourism industry can take a further step forward and be more competitive, responding in a concrete way to the growing demands of online tourism users.
in writing. - mr president, road safety is a very topical issue. every year, many people die in road accidents, including many children. however, the european union is taking concrete measures not only to prevent accidents but also to respond immediately to them. for example, the european union recently mandated that from 2015 all cars must be fitted with an electronic device called an ecall, a life-saving device, which in the event of a serious accident will automatically send a call for help to 112, the single european emergency number, giving the time, exact location and direction of travel. the joint european campaign 'seatbelt' promoted by the european network of traffic police was also held from 12 to 18 september. i hope that the future action plan will propose measures which are equally useful for the safety of not only motorists but also pedestrians.
in writing. − the goal of reducing road deaths must be pursued with strength and determination by all institutions and levels of government; i agree that the eu should also make a full effort in this area. reducing deaths and permanent disabilities from accidents also means reducing the enormous social costs and the burden of human tragedy that tens of thousands of such events in europe each year entail for national health systems. i also agree with the basic approach of the european strategy, which aims to address road safety without taking away the prerogatives of the states and local authorities in this area, but rather by framing a strategy which is perfectly complementary and supportive of the necessary action by the decentralised levels of government. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr koch's report because i share the ambitious target re-proposed by the commission of halving the number of road accident victims in the eu by 2020. to this end, i agree with what parliament has suggested, namely that we should support policies aimed at increasing road safety, so as to achieve the long-term objective of 'vision zero'. this is why the eu needs to be equipped with a more concrete set of road safety measures. moreover, i believe that it is useful to improve road safety indicators and data in order to achieve harmonisation of the data to be compared, especially in the context of the analysis of the causes of injuries and accidents. however, the european union has a continuing commitment, confirmed by the data: the number of road deaths fell by 36% between 2001 and 2009, with a decrease of 80 000 fatalities. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. since 2009, 35 000 people have died and 1.5 million have been injured on european roads.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on road safety in europe 2011-2020, as it highlights several aspects aimed at achieving the target of a 50% reduction in road fatalities by 2020. this report refers to the general aspect of synergy and coordination, which must be the main features of future action in the field of road safety, involving all european, national and local institutional actors. in particular, the report proposes several measures on which to concentrate our work in the near future. first, it emphasises the best possible driver training by introducing driving tests and health checks harmonised at european level. in this connection, i believe that the installation of a series of instruments such as the alcohol-lock, which analyses the psychophysical state of the driver and intervenes on the ignition of the vehicle, preventing it in the event of alcohol or drug abuse, should be encouraged. secondly, the report looks at road infrastructure and in this respect i think it is essential to create and improve parking areas for drivers. these areas must be considered as an integral part of the road infrastructure, both in the planning phase and in the extension operations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr koch because i believe it can help the commission to make a real commitment to road safety, especially as regards the development of the proposed models for a new comprehensive action plan. in this respect, i appreciated and supported the validity of the own-initiative report proposing the establishment of the european road safety coordinator office within the commission, to coordinate the actions of local, regional, national and international authorities and stakeholders in road safety. the report sends a very clear message to our governments: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the motorcycle industry. i sincerely hope that the number of victims will be reduced, not the amount of money allocated to them.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe, some 1.3 million road accidents a year result in well over 35 000 deaths and 1.5 million injuries. that is why it is urgent to establish a european action plan to put an end to the daily drama on our streets. i share the view of our rapporteur that it is first of all necessary to promote an exchange of knowledge and experience between the member states and to carry out a european-wide investigation into the causes of accidents. it is on the basis of this data that we must determine the measures to be taken to improve road safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i would also like to stress the importance of prevention. continuous training and updating of drivers, safety campaigns and appropriate medical examinations can make a significant contribution to reducing the number of accidents across the eu. the role of visual perception in the safe driving of a vehicle is also relevant. we hope that in future more attention will be paid to eye examinations not only at the time of the granting of a licence but throughout life.
in writing. − despite the measures taken at member state level, the number of road deaths in europe is still too high; the european parliament adopted a resolution in response to the commission's 2010 communication, calling on the institution to propose an even more ambitious action plan. the implementation of road signs, the safety of infrastructure and vehicles, the exchange of data, but above all the harmonization of legislation in this area, for example by reducing the speed limit in residential areas to 30 km/h and prohibiting the use of alcohol by new drivers and drivers, will have to be improved. only then will it be possible to halve the number of victims and reduce the number of injured by 2020. we therefore expect the commission, on the basis of parliament's suggestions, to produce a new plan by the end of the year. road safety must be a european priority.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr koch's report, which i supported, deals with the most critical aspects of road safety. the victims of road accidents are an unfortunately significant number that europe cannot accept and must commit itself to reducing drastically. action is needed on several fronts: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the coordination at european level through a liaison officer between the various countries and not simply taking over the functions of other officials, road safety education and the protection of travellers, and the implementation of infrastructure. the achievement of the objectives set out in the resolution adopted is an important step towards demonstrating that we are attentive and active in responding to a pressing issue such as road safety.
in writing. − road safety policy is one of the next objectives for 2020. the reduction in road fatalities may depend on the european management of the problem and therefore the eu must provide technical legal bases to member states and local authorities in order to actually increase road safety for citizens. the text in question, which i support, offers the opportunity to study all the aspects of road safety in europe, from driver behaviour to road maintenance to infrastructure safety, in order to obtain proposals for solutions to improve road safety.
in writing. the report on road safety in europe was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the report by mr dieter-lebrecht koch essentially shares the commission's objectives and the broad lines of action that a coherent, comprehensive and integrated approach is needed to increase road safety, involving all road users and stakeholders and taking into account synergies with other policy objectives. it is therefore necessary to integrate road safety needs into all relevant policy areas and to efficiently link the different levels local, regional, national and european in the preparation and implementation of measures. the report therefore proposes the creation of a european road safety coordinator, which, with the support of the commission, should be a meeting point for the different approaches and levels.
in writing. − safety on european roads has increased considerably in recent years. the third european road safety action programme 2001-2010 has made a decisive contribution to this. in fact, since 2001, progress has saved nearly 80,000 lives. shortly before the end of the third action programme, the european commission presented a new communication setting out its strategic objectives up to 2020. it again aims to halve the total number of road fatalities in the eu by 2020 as a key target. the report adopted today underlines the need for a coherent, comprehensive and integrated approach, involving all road users and stakeholders, and considering synergies with other policy objectives.
in writing. - i would be in favour of the report because, in the field of road safety, the european union should establish a general framework and objectives to guide national or local strategies in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. in order to reduce the number of fatal accidents, i believe it is appropriate to implement checks, harmonize road signs, create safe road traffic infrastructure, promote the marketing of safe vehicles (mandatory alcohol-free devices). the uk should also stop circulating unlike all other countries in europe and adapt to the rules in force in the eu. unfortunately, however, this report is being affected by a number of amendments adopted in the house which make it too repressive. for example, banning people who take medicines that affect their ability to drive is absurd because, for their own peace of mind, pharmaceutical companies put this contraindication on the package insert of most medicines. in fact, very few people who take these drugs have problems driving. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new category of vehicles, the 'new' category of vehicles, which will be subject to the same conditions as the 'new' category. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr koch's report on road safety because i think that road safety plays an important role, considering that about 55% of fatal accidents occur on non-urban roads, 36% in urban areas and 6% on motorways. in the capitals of the european union, road accidents have caused an average of 1,845 deaths per year over the past three years. many of these victims are pedestrians, cyclists, the elderly, and children. in order to reduce the number of road deaths, common and harmonised restrictive measures are needed throughout europe, such as the creation of safe road infrastructure, the observance of driving and rest periods, and the creation of safe parking places for truck drivers that comply with minimum social standards. i agree with the establishment by 2014 of a european road safety coordinator whose aim is, in particular, to launch a debate on the effectiveness of road safety policies in large and medium-sized urban areas and on the factors needed to rebuild safe mobility for all citizens.
in writing. − to reduce the number of road deaths by 50% by 2020 is the ambitious goal of the text presented by mr koch. this requires a coherent, comprehensive and integrated approach, involving all stakeholders in an active way: the community institutions will have to play a leading and coordinating role, while the member states and local authorities will have to commit themselves to ensuring the implementation of policies for better safety on our roads. the proposal to set up a 'european road safety coordinator' which, with the help of the commission, should act as a sort of intermediary to ensure cooperation between the various levels should also be welcomed. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report is important because i value its aim to find a comprehensive and transparent evaluation of the full range of options available to reduce the impacts of floods and meet water and energy needs. despite the billions of dollars spent on flood management in the past years, globally, no other natural hazard has cost more human lives or proved more destructive to property than floods. i believe that the eu must promote the establishment of a global early warning system for floods and should finance capacity building and training in improved land management. in this field priority should be given to ecosystem-based solutions and to making existing systems more effective and sustainable. i also would like to stress that any planning of dams should be evaluated according to five values: equity, efficiency, participatory decision-making, sustainability and accountability.
in writing. − water is an invaluable resource given its scarcity and the need for careful management. the management of freshwater requires special attention: if we also consider climate change, it is a fundamental challenge for the whole world. on the other hand, it should not be forgotten that in recent decades no other natural phenomenon has been as damaging as flood disasters, despite the fact that the costs of managing and preventing them have been far from negligible. a balanced investment is needed to improve water collection and storage methods, to increase the effective and sustainable use of water resources and to reduce both the effects of flooding and the adverse effects of drought. that is why i voted in favour of this report, although i believe that further work is needed to achieve the objective of limiting climate change.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought i could support mr deva's text, which deals specifically with the problems of global warming and the consequent need to invest in dam infrastructure for developing countries. the floods that have also affected various parts of the world in recent years are a testimony to the fact that the problem of flooding is contingent and requires specific responses from both a preventive and an infrastructure point of view. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as members of a community so developed and full of initiatives, i think it is appropriate to support increased financing for the construction of infrastructure, in this case dams, in developing countries. the solidarity and humanitarian aid we can give to these realities, sometimes so distant from our own, is fundamental for these countries. i believe that it is a moral and civic duty for the european union to provide aid that can prevent disasters and, above all, that can provide drinking water and irrigation in areas where the situation is highly dramatic.
in writing. − no other natural hazard has caused more damage or loss of life than the floods of the last century, despite billions of dollars invested in flood management. the development of decentralised water infrastructure is a prerequisite for ensuring water security in africa and for achieving the millennium development goals. some improvements in storage methods are needed to ensure sufficient water supply during periods of drought and to retain excess water during floods. the current average storage capacity per capita in africa is about 200 cubic metres per year, far below that of developing countries in other regions. the text voted today stresses the need for a comprehensive flood strategy in those regions where the presence of unstable glacial lakes poses a serious threat of flooding.
in writing. the report will be voted on by a majority of the members of the committee on budgets. there is no doubt that dams bring about immediate changes in the ecosystem and sometimes damage to existing homes and structures, but we must consider that they also bring about economic and social well-being linked to the possible uses, in addition to the production of clean energy. the rapporteur is able to consider dams to be harmful because they produce co2. perhaps the official documents of parliament should stop regarding co2, which we also ingest by drinking carbonated drinks, as the worst poison on the planet. i think we would emit a lot more co2 producing electricity using fossil fuel than we would with a hydroelectric system.
in writing. − since the middle of the last century there has been a steady increase in the frequency of severe flooding and this will become an even more serious problem in the coming decades. according to a united nations estimate, by 2050 as many as two billion people will have to live with the threat of severe flooding. and if flooding is becoming a serious problem for western countries too, it must be stressed that, unfortunately, once again developing countries, lacking in early warning systems and reliable construction, are the most vulnerable to the effects of flooding. these countries, moreover, base a large part of their economy on agriculture and if agricultural areas are not safely protected from the effects of flooding, the damage caused may result in, in addition to crop losses, a serious slowdown in the already fragile economic chain. the european union must therefore continue along the path it has started, by working to increase the construction of dams in these countries and to improve the protection of buildings against flooding by developing flood storage areas and adequate diversion systems. for these reasons i have expressed my support for mr deva's report.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of mrs zimmer's report because the problem of food security, especially in developing countries, is a challenge for all industrialized countries and in particular for the eu, in order to achieve the millennium goals. despite the commitment made, progress in this area is still insufficient and fao's estimates of the number of hungry people in the world - over 900 billion - are impressive. the eu, like the member states, should give the fight against poverty the highest priority so that its eradication can be achieved and made a sustainable goal. the eu must make its efforts to promote respect for human rights in relation to food, water and energy more effective, giving them the appropriate weight in the eu's energy policy strategy, sustainable development strategy and future development cooperation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it asks for immediate steps in order to make the right of food security a reality. food insecurity is challenging the achievement of the millennium development goals, especially in sub-saharan africa and the least developed countries. as we all know, the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisitions, loss of biodiversity and pressures on water have contributed to further affect the state of food security in the world. for this reason all the european institutions as well as the member states must put the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition as the first item on their agendas. it is imperative to stress that emergency mechanisms could have negative effects, especially on local economies, and must not be thought of as a long-term solution. a sustainable development policy could only be based on a cooperation approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to support developing countries in implementing food and nutrition security policies, which are essential for the extension of human rights in these countries. i would like to stress in particular how the alleviation of the problems of poverty in the world must be the result of a wide-ranging cooperation which is essential for the promotion of common peace and security. in this connection, i believe that each member state must contribute to assisting the developing countries through new and more substantial investments in agriculture, and in reducing the debt of these countries, removing barriers to international trade and promoting youth employment policies. ensuring the availability of food, its accessibility and adequate caloric intake must be a priority for all countries as a fundamental right of every individual.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food security is essential to balanced development at all levels. its relationship to the sustainability of primary sector production is expressed in several ways. both in environmental terms, through the use of eco-friendly techniques and products and through the non-speculative exploitation and management of the immense natural genetic heritage that exists, especially in developing countries. both in economic terms, by exploiting the competitive advantages between the different areas and countries, which would also allow developing countries to be part of a fair and global growth, and on the other hand by promoting the relationship with the territories, favouring zero-kilometre products where the costs and energy pollution linked to transport and the quality and tradition of the products can be better appreciated. in social terms, the processes of progressive urbanization and demographic growth, especially in developing countries, must be balanced with the needs of presence in the territories. finally, in political terms, because the primary and food sectors represent the most concrete daily foundations of coexistence between people, including in relations with the institutions. the report approved supports this view.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported mrs zimmer's report because i believe that growth in agriculture is an effective lever in the process of poverty reduction and job creation. if we add to this the synergy of factors which encourage agricultural production, guaranteeing those countries a guaranteed food supply, then the step taken will have been a very important one. the eu's role in this difficult process is to create and dialogue in order to launch an education and training project that can create professionalism, investment opportunities and enable young people to pursue agronomic studies that can produce better and in a specialised and sustainable way, thus curbing rural exodus and reducing poverty. i believe that the creation of partnerships between local agricultural organizations at the various stages of implementing an agricultural policy in developing countries would strengthen the process of agricultural development. in this context, the european union should work to strengthen local associative structures in order to ensure that the interests of local communities are protected.
in writing. − food insecurity is a challenge to the achievement of the millennium development goals, particularly in sub-saharan africa and the least developed countries. according to fao estimates, 925 million people suffered from hunger in 2010; this is down from 1 023 million in 2009, but still higher than the number of undernourished people in 2008 (around 815 million). new challenges, including the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisitions, biofuels, biodiversity loss, land degradation and pressures on water resources have contributed to further undermining the food security situation in the world. in this context, the current problems of hunger and malnutrition have led to a review of the approach to food security not only at eu level but also at global level. the report adopted today calls on the european union and its member states to affirm their commitment to combating poverty and hunger in the world in the framework of international organisations such as the world bank, the international monetary fund and the wto.
in writing. - the rapporteur's arguments, which we agree with, that 'financial speculation' on food markets is the cause of price rises or sudden price falls, lead to proposals which we strongly oppose. the rapporteur calls for the elimination of incentives for european farmers and for the elimination of all agricultural export subsidies, always putting the interests of third countries ahead of those of the eu countries.
in writing. - congratulations to mr zimmer, who has succeeded in harmoniously balancing the proposals of the committee on development with almost all the suggestions contained in the opinion of our committee on agriculture. i am particularly pleased that the point which was particularly close to my heart, namely energy self-sufficiency, has been taken up in its entirety in paragraph 22. i think it is important to stress that part of the aid for the pvs must contribute to the construction of renewable energy plants and to good water management, all in the context of aid for the acquisition of know-how with the aim of the country's independence from external influences. self-sufficiency, whether in energy or food production, must be integrated into the policy of developing countries aiming to improve their food security, especially through the implementation of food strategies aimed at alleviating poverty and eventually making aid itself superfluous. i would like to conclude by making a point. as shadow rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on agriculture, i voted against paragraph 63. this is because, in the opinion we expressed in the committee on development, we have already specifically stressed the need to phase out export subsidies (see paragraph 29), but we cannot accept that, in a full review of the cap, the committee should with an additional paragraph require the permanent elimination of incentives.
in writing. - mr president, the challenge of the europe 2020 strategy is to boost the growth of our economies in a smart, sustainable and inclusive way through the opening up of trade and investment. but to achieve these objectives and to move rapidly towards a productive future, it is first necessary to combat unfair trading practices with the appropriate instruments and to guarantee to us consumers and our businesses free access to the market, to services and investments, to raw materials and to public procurement, and also to protect intellectual property rights. it is right that the european union should continue to negotiate in the wto so that both 'offensive' interests, i.e. those aimed at free access to the world market, and 'defensive' interests, linked to the consequences of liberalisation, are properly taken into account in the conclusion of bilateral agreements.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the union needs a coherent long-term trade strategy in order to take account of the major emerging countries. such a strategy should be based on a thorough analysis of the current trends in world trade, the union’s internal and external development as well as the diversity of european enterprises. it is important to stress that micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises represent 99 % of all enterprises in the eu and have great potential to create new jobs and innovation. for that reason internal and external policies should better address their specific needs to enhance their competitiveness. with regard to external policy, the parliament must support the commission in its goal to promote sustainable development, free and fair trade, international labour standards and decent work. we should not forget that trade policy must promote development, permit better regional cooperation, encourage investment and improve economic governance, reminding all stakeholders that other regions of the globe have shown how trade can contribute to welfare.
in writing. - i support the new trade policy. increasing european gdp, tackling demographic change and increasing exports are essential to reduce the eu's dependence on trade. i stress the need for balanced trade agreements between the eu and its trading partners, to the mutual benefit of all. it is also important to protect (through international standardisation) consumers, the environment, health and safety standards for products and intellectual property rights. cooperation between customs and external border surveillance authorities is therefore essential, but it must also develop a reciprocal exchange of goods and technology between the eu and developing countries. the importance of relations with the united states for the development of efficient, low-carbon technologies and for dialogue on legislative and regulatory issues was emphasised. finally, i believe that in an economy based on low labour costs, innovation and the identification of competitive advantages are crucial for the eu. foreign direct investment is vital for the european economy, given the importance of innovation for strong and sustainable growth, through the creation of european project bonds (project bonds).
in writing. - we cannot define the guidelines for the new european trade policy without taking account of the considerable changes which have taken place over the last decade on the international economic scene. just think of the great expansion of countries like china and india, which in 2000 contributed only 10% to the world economy, whereas by some estimates, by 2020 they could reach 25%. in order to promote the competitiveness of european industries, i believe that the time has come to develop a long-term external trade strategy capable of meeting the many challenges of this new scenario. only by strengthening dialogue with our strategic partners, reducing trade barriers and a new european investment policy can we promote smart growth and safeguard, even in this time of crisis, the more than 36 million jobs that depend, directly or indirectly, on the eu's ability to trade with the rest of the world. finally, i would remind you that our task is also to protect eu production from the distortions of international trade caused by globalisation. i therefore hope that appropriate trade defence instruments will be put in place to respond effectively to the legitimate concerns of european smes.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am in full support of the content of the report we have just voted on, because it is essential that a new trade strategy be put in place that looks to the future, especially at a critical time like the one we are living through. we live in a globalised world, in a global market, and the european union's strategy cannot ignore this assumption. free trade, protection for small and mediumsized enterprises, progress in dialogue with other countries such as china, russia, the usa and japan, and the key role of the wto in international trade must be the cornerstones of a constantly evolving strategy that adapts to change, but at the same time is able to manage it and not just be a spectator.
in writing. − the commission's communication on 'trade, growth and world affairs' comes at a time when the eu has acquired new competences as a result of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the document, however, does not present a forward-looking trade and investment strategy, but rather an introduction to the policy to be pursued in the coming months rather than a far-reaching trade strategy for the european union in the face of a rapidly changing world economy and a major rebalancing of economic balances. the text adopted today calls on the commission to analyse and prepare forecasts which take account of the current realities of the world economy and the present situation in the european union, as well as likely future changes. this analysis should form the basis for the elaboration of a long-term strategy adapted to the needs of the european union and its citizens.
in writing. - this report contains several references and several objectives which the european commission should have achieved but did not. it also contains very interesting analytical data on european and world trade, showing that the emerging countries' shares of world exports have increased in a few years. the eu's share of the eu's gdp fell from 37% in 1999 to 29% in just ten years. the vote will be against it because, instead of providing for rules to protect the interests of our companies and thus of europe, it contains repeated references to liberalisation as a system to generate productivity, without taking account of the enormous imbalances that exist and limiting to the minimum the references to the social and economic dumping carried out by asian countries. the text includes unacceptable praise for the current policy of the european commission, which is proliferating free trade agreements with countries whose products will create incalculable damage to our companies.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately our delegation was not able to vote in favour of this report. the liberalization of trade with third countries, in addition to diminishing europe's role in the international economic context, favours the growth of the latter, without protecting in particular the interests of our own and those of other member states which still believe in the defence of a local production system and not, instead, in unregulated relocation. i also believe that this report, which is part of a subject which deeply divides europe, requires further political analysis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr caspary's text, which represents the european parliament's assessment of the new eu trade policy strategy presented by the european commission in november 2010. the rapporteur, in addition to calling for the commission to take action on international trade in a more long-term manner, stresses the need to integrate trade policy more closely with other eu policies, first and foremost industrial policy: the competitiveness of european industry and the economy are at the core of the trade strategy for the period up to 2020, with actions that should aim at strengthening trade with the eu's major trading partners; to curb the proliferation of tariffs or other forms of customs barriers; ensuring access to raw materials (including through greater opening to third country markets); to avoid unfair practices that are counterproductive to the interests of european businesses.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i share your regret, madam president, at the deplorable lack of verbal discipline after the meetings of the european council, the ecofin council and the eurogroup. in fact, when i compare the press conferences of the various countries, i always get the impression that, having attended the meeting, i attended a different meeting from that described in the various national press conferences. it doesn't add to our credibility. as regards the rest, and as regards greece, we look forward to the report of the troika. if the commissioner tells us that the greek government is implementing the right decisions, the sixth instalment will of course be paid. i think we must therefore observe the pace which our procedures impose on us. i share your doubts as to whether what has been done so far can be enough to bring europe out of the crisis. we'll have to do more. we must agree on a genuine growth policy that will have an impact, particularly in countries which are undergoing an adjustment programme. i repeat: consolidation is necessary, but without a genuine growth policy aimed at creating jobs, without a policy of non-inflationary growth fertile in jobs, we shall not get out of the crisis we are in at the moment.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, progress must never be stopped while it is in progress. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bundestag will have to give its opinion on the agreement of 21 july on thursday evening, while the report of the troika on the situation in greece is expected shortly. in short, mr president, economists from all over the world are accusing us, accusing the european leaders, the european institutions, of wasting precious time in trying to save the euro. we have reached a crossroads for europe and for our currency. in this context, what can we expect from the eurogroup-ecofin meeting on 3 october? do you think that decisive action is possible? and if so, what kind of political support?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i am very concerned about what is happening in greece, because i often find, when reading my letter, that many greek citizens do not understand what we are doing and that many of your fellow citizens feel that the european union, the eurogroup, are punishing the greek citizens. i would like our greek friends to understand that the consolidation of greek public finances is essential. i want your fellow citizens to understand that you cannot fight debt with debt. i would like the greeks to understand that they cannot go on like this and that we too should understand that we have a duty towards greece, apart from the historical duty of gratitude, a duty of actuality which requires us to be in solidarity with the hellenic republic, provided that the greek authorities agree to bear the burden that weighs on them. as far as economic governance is concerned, i repeat that we must agree on the content. i would like the euro area or the european union as such to adopt within a few months a programme of economic governance which will see the various dimensions of economic governance and governance being put in place step by step. when we prepared for the introduction of the single currency, and in the framework of the maastricht treaty, we proceeded in stages. we had three stages to introduce the euro because we were investing in a field that we did not know. economic governance is another area where we do not know all the ins and outs, and so i would like us to draw up a step-by-step programme which is understandable to the citizens, which is designed in such a way that governments, national parliaments, community bodies, including the european parliament and our public opinion understand the pace at which we are moving.
mr president, do you not think that the treaties already allow for closer integration of the eurozone and that it is therefore not necessary and even counterproductive to achieve it outside the eu institutions as the present governments of france and germany seem to want to do? in particular, do you not think that article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union allows for the adoption of legislative measures for the euro area within the framework of the economic policy powers which the treaties confer on the eu? and secondly, does article 352 allow the powers of the existing institutions to be strengthened in order to achieve the objectives set out in the treaties? finally, does protocol no 14 not prohibit the eurogroup from meeting at the level of heads of state or government without having to create a new institution and would it therefore be unreasonable for the president of another institution, namely the european council, to preside over this enlarged eurogroup? and does he not therefore believe that achieving this integration of the euro area within or outside the treaties is a matter of political will and not of legal constraints?
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the activity of the ministerial week at the united nations general assembly, in particular the middle east and north africa peace process [2011/2828 (rsp) ].
mr president, mrs brok has rightly said that many of us have criticised her in the past on certain initiatives. we will not do so this time, and we will not do so because we feel that the presence of the high representative is a new factor which, by helping the european union to adopt a common position on this matter, the subject of the israeli-palestinian conflict, can be decisive in guiding a positive development of the conflict. we therefore want you to know and feel the closeness of parliament and, as hans-gert pöttering has rightly said, we know what we want: an agreement based on the existence of two democratic and sovereign states, whose peoples can live within secure and internationally recognised borders. what is still lacking are negotiations which have given certain results and certain conclusions. all democratic countries know that peace will be achieved when the palestinian state is established, but we also know that this must be achieved through genuine peace negotiations. the palestinian state cannot exist without peace, and to proclaim a palestinian state today would only mean ending the peace negotiations and opening a new phase of the internal conflict.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached a crucial moment for the decades-old aspiration of the palestinian people to have a homeland and also for the legitimate aspiration of the israeli people to live in security, because this aspiration is closely linked to the first, because there is no security without peace and there is no peace without a democratic palestinian state that respects international law, such as the one outlined by mahmoud abbas at the un. the acceptance of the quartet's timetable is a success for the european union, and we must acknowledge that success to you, madam high representative, despite the commitment of some states to try to steal the show from the european union. and yet the announcements of new settlements warn us that the path will be riddled with provocations. it is therefore important to increase pressure on the israeli government by making clear the eu's support, even in the absence of absolute unanimity, for a possible vote in the general assembly on the acquisition of non-member state status. and it is important that this parliament should be united in supporting and increasing this pressure, even if it does not put aside differences of opinion on full membership, but that it should all support, in its resolution, the legitimate aspiration of the palestinians to be represented as a state at the united nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, there is no doubt that the peace process in the middle east, as in north africa, requires more than ever today decisive and authoritative action, a common european spirit which can finally lead to a clear and shared strategy. it is precisely because the autonomous initiatives of certain member states seem inadequate to the complexity of the moment - i am referring to those in libya a few weeks ago - that it is essential that the european union, together with its international partners, first and foremost the un, should be able to define a single programme to achieve this peace that has been missing for too long. but recognizing the dignity of both israel and palestine does not mean uncritically supporting their errors and pretentious behaviour. mr pöttering said this a short while ago: it is not enough to appeal to feelings, settlements must not be made and therefore appropriate sanctions must also be introduced, because if there are rules, they must certainly be protected and observed. what is happening in north africa must not be underestimated either, the wind of freedom, peace and fundamental rights must be guaranteed and assisted by you in particular, mrs ashton. we understand the difficulties, but we also note the efforts you are making to ensure strong and effective cooperation and, above all, to give those third countries which have earned our trust a chance of success.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eastern partnership is an important political dimension for the european union, but the obstacles currently in its way are worrying. the dialogue with belarus remains difficult, and in ukraine the tymoshenko case confirms a decline in respect for human rights and rampant corruption. georgia and azerbaijan have part of their territory occupied militarily and tension between azerbaijan and armenia is growing with risks of armed conflict. without losing hope for the future of the eastern partnership, we must call on the six partner countries to live up to their responsibilities: the european union is committed to the principles of democracy and the settlement of territorial disputes. i am referring to nagorno-karabakh and georgia. europe cannot accept that international law guaranteeing territorial integrity is violated, as this parliament has already called for in its resolution on the south caucasus, and it cannot renounce its fundamental principles on respect for human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, oppressed ethnic minorities, christians forced to live their faith in secret, priests brutally murdered without the authorities moving a finger, anti-western foreign policy: this is turkey today. my party, the northern league, has always been against turkey's entry into europe, because it represents a potential trojan horse for radical islamism on our continent. today, more than ever, we are convinced that the eu must put an end to the accession negotiations. the endless threats that turkey has made against europe must be met with an immediate response. we cannot accept that a third country tells europe what to do. cyprus is a full member of the eu and has the unquestionable right to assume the rotating presidency. europe must send a clear signal and show itself ready to defend cyprus by all means against the arrogance and political and military bullying of turkey. we must immediately suspend the accession negotiations and be prepared to suspend trade relations as well.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, president barroso, commissioner, honourable members, first of all let me thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the council in this crucial debate. i would like to thank president barroso for his remarks, and i especially want to emphasise what he said about the need to restore growth in the european union. this has been reflected in a number of interventions today. the growth agenda is also at the very heart of the polish presidency programme, where we are working very closely with the commission ahead of the october european council. here let me mention two elements: first of all, the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it is the eu institutions and the member states working together in the framework of eu 2020 which will ensure that we emerge stronger from the crisis. second, the negotiations on the multi-annual financial framework, which we started this autumn. there are, of course, very different opinions on the mff to be reconciled. everybody refers to the economic climate that underpins those discussions. in any case we will have to find compromises, and for the council presidency there are two elements which are absolutely crucial in those discussions. first of all, we must have a comprehensive, profound debate on the basis of the proposal from the commission. secondly we must find consensus on the idea that the money should be spent on supporting europe in its search for stable and balanced growth. mr president, let me use this opportunity briefly to say that we are looking forward to the very important vote today in parliament: a very important vote for economic and monetary union and a very important vote for the european union. this vote on the six-pack is a milestone on our way out of the debt crisis and towards more fiscal and economic transparency and discipline. this will also mean more power for the commission, and i am happy that we have found support for these proposals in the council. i also want to acknowledge in this process the role that parliament has played in making sure that the package is coherent and ambitious and the fact that you have shown flexibility and responsibility. another example, from the last 48 hours: correlation tables, where we actually enhance the role of the commission as the guardian of the treaties. this is also a way of showing that we are transparent in the implementation of european legislation and that the union works. finally, another example from the last twelve hours: a compromise in the trialogue on the external financial instruments. the reason why i mention those three – the six-pack, correlation tables and the external financial instruments – is very simple. the message is: the community method works. the sceptics can be proved wrong, and i address this to mr zahradil in particular, because i think people from your party in the czech republic and poland do not read the facts, they just live in a dream that the european union will crumble. i think you will be proved wrong. to close, i just want to say that, concerning economic and monetary union, schengen, foreign and security policy, the single market, energy and all the issues that president barroso raised today, you can count on an approach by the presidency which will include more europe, not less europe; more support for the community method rather than intergovernmentalism; and finally, support for ever-closer union and not for ever-looser union. that is the only way to rebuild trust.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, many of us, perhaps all of us, before this debate, called for more courage and from today on i think we shall have to call it the "lion's heart of bravery". the economic crisis is also an institutional crisis and it is right, as you said, that we relaunch the european project by seeking new solutions to the crisis we are experiencing. fear is the driving force behind a populist and nationalist vision, and courage is the value that created europe and gave it peace and prosperity. but beware, mr president, our ideas and your proposals are antithetical to populism, but our voters are often the same. this means that if the reforms you have mentioned are not implemented within a few months, they will paradoxically become the pretext for eurosceptic criticism. you have opened this game with a three-axis hand, mr president, so now, the lion's heart, present your proposals to parliament and the council and we shall win this hand together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, we have heard you today, and you are very encouraging and very encouraging, and so you give us hope for the future. the crisis is forcing us to make choices and timing that we might not have made in normal times. i cannot and do not want to imagine the scenario that would arise if europe and the euro failed. so the choices are based on three things: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the reform of the organisational model, the exit plan and the timetable. i am only referring to the exit plan, this must be built, this growth. and there is a big game here and you mentioned it through the project bonds, relating to this marshall plan, which we could call a modern true "barroso plan" which refers to these 1,600 billion euros that go to the construction of this great infrastructure plan. let us be proud of this europe again, for those who believe in it like me and like many others here, this is the objective we must have now, watch the times, president barroso!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this package, despite the indications of my group. i believe that at a time of such a serious crisis, the most important thing that europe can do is to respond promptly to a question raised by the citizens. i therefore believe that this package is not enough, but it is absolutely necessary to continue along this path by strengthening the instruments for growth, but by controlling budgets and giving more rules to govern development. i therefore imagine that tomorrow will be an important day to pay attention to what the european union, the most important democratic institution, has done at this moment. of course, much remains to be done, but this is an important first response and we could not miss the opportunity after years of discussions in which the greatest crisis we have ever experienced was not tackled with the necessary timeliness and firmness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of recent years and the current situation of extreme difficulty in some eurozone countries have highlighted the need for more effective economic governance of the union, based on a community surveillance framework that is more robust than national economic policies. this is in order to achieve macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, allowing for sustainable growth in output and employment. i therefore believe that it is essential that this package of six pieces of legislation be adopted, as this will help to avoid the conditions that have seriously undermined the stability of our economy in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the whole package of six measures and therefore understand this because it is a fundamental step towards real european governance. we do this to take responsibility and to control budgets even where national governments, the governments of the member states, have failed. and this is the moment when the credibility of our institutions, of the european institutions, is at stake. europe has a duty to respond to the demands of its citizens, to ensure that stability, that government, to create the conditions for growth without which there would be no future for our citizens and especially for the new generations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have given my support to this and to the other dossiers forming the six-pack because i am convinced that in a time of extraordinary crisis the response of the european parliament as a whole and of the european institutions must be strong, decisive and above all ready both on the issues of economic governance and on the issues of strong cohesion within the european institutions and on a prior review of the policies for the coordination of the budgets of the member states. that is where action is needed, we are waiting for all the member states to put in place the concrete measures that have been called for in this regard for an extraordinary plan that can boost competition, real employment, with an eye to the poor and the marginalized and social inclusion. these are the issues we will have to focus on in the coming months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a decisive moment for the future of the euro and, with it, for the whole of european construction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all want the accounts of the various states to be in order, we all want to reduce the debt. however, it is clear that without a smart investment policy that can give the economy a boost, there will be no chance of growth. the only clear result of this approach is that the heaviest costs will, as always, be borne by the weaker classes. that is why we, together with the socialist and democratic group, voted against this report. in fact, it is moving in one direction, namely rigidity without growth, a direction which has so far proved to be wrong.
i am sorry to interrupt shakespeare but you see time is time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too voted in favour of the six-pack. i strongly believe in a path that promotes stronger common economic governance. we are now at a decisive juncture, and it is therefore a juncture fraught with difficulties, which cannot but make us aware of the many opportunities that europe has lost. i would remind you that on 16 june the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, came here to stress the need to talk about a euro-country rather than a euro-zone. in june the problems seemed to be more about vocabulary and terminology than substance. i would also like to recall that president barroso - whom i greatly appreciated today for the determination and persistence with which he conducted his report - assured us in 2008 that there was no rational reason to fear a recession. we are living in a time when a new european and europeanist pride is leading, also through the acts adopted by this parliament, to a great sense of responsibility. and stronger economic governance is also a policy that takes responsibility for driving growth and development by not delegating economic scenarios to market speculation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis has shown that the stability and growth pact is not working as it should. six member states, three of which are in the euro area, are facing budgetary problems and are at risk of defaulting on their debt. this is a situation that must be brought to an end urgently. it is important, however, that this be done in a sustainable and forward-looking way. that is why i voted in favour of mr goulard's report, which i share in its sanctioning approach, particularly in cases of manipulation of financial data, fraudulent statistics or misleading information by a member state. at the same time, however, future efforts will have to be directed towards the heart of the problem, namely the inadequacy of the european union's economic integration. the sanctions will have a substantial deterrent effect if the link between the various economic policies is not strengthened by increased surveillance missions by the commission and, in the medium term, by means of eurobonds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by approving the six-pack, the european parliament has finally given the green light to a concrete strategy to combat the crisis. the keywords are stability, rigor, budget transparency and debt reduction. but as juncker said yesterday and barroso said today, we must also invest in development and employment and think about young people who expect a lot from us. and today barroso has presented us with the next steps of a truly bold strategy. among the important points is the presentation of a series of proposals on eurobonds and above all a tax on financial transactions, a revenue of eur 56 billion a year because it is right that the banks, perhaps above all the banks, bear the costs of the crisis and not just companies and citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate mrs sylvie goulard on having tackled and completed a dossier of this difficulty, which is also a fundamental step towards european governance. and this is something that parliament is doing in a concrete way by carrying forward the statements that we have heard in this house today, but which are often not put into practice. this is the concrete invitation, i repeat, that we are also making to president barroso. because when you make a statement of principle, everyone agrees. when the commission's programme was voted on here, we agreed with it, but it is a question of putting it into practice. this measure is an implementation towards that programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of recent years has shown that we need a strengthened framework for economic governance, as well as a broader and stronger framework for surveillance, making it credible and effective, and introducing sanctions which will only be effective deterrents if they are effectively applied. finally, i believe that europe cannot respond to the economic and financial emergency solely through austerity plans. it is important to settle accounts, but this is not enough. more and better can be done, especially in terms of equity, development and employment, and it is for these reasons that i felt i had to abstain on the haglund report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report has shown us what new and important powers the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament. the commission's proposals for better economic governance are of decisive importance for our economic growth and specifically for the growth of the euro area. the improvements made by the european parliament in creating a sound and coherent regulatory framework are obvious. i share the general approach of this report and have therefore voted in favour of it. we have new responsibilities ahead of us, the package of measures must be further improved and strengthened. i think we need to pay more attention to preventing unsustainable fiscal and macroeconomic policies, but above all give parliament a relevant role in the monitoring process by providing for regular and systematic debates and public hearings in parliament itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr haglund here, too, on the work he has done, and i voted in favour of him, as i did for the whole package. the report defines sanctions for macroeconomic imbalances, but it must be said that these are sanctions which should be imposed only and exclusively if the member state shows that it is not willing to adopt the necessary corrective policies, because if the financial situation does not improve there cannot be, mr de angelis, any chance of development, or there would be a chance of growth which would be small and would lead to nothing. for this reason i believe that the package which has been approved today will be the basis for achieving the growth which all the member states must objectively aim for. if we stop here we will certainly not have achieved the objectives we set ourselves, but with this step we can certainly achieve that other objective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the ferreira report, as i voted for the whole package. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs ferreira, the rapporteur, for her cooperation throughout the year and to congratulate her on the result of the vote. i am convinced that the ferreira report and the macroeconomic surveillance that goes with it represent a real innovation. in the area of the stability and growth pact, we have done nothing but to reinforce what was already there. we have not introduced any new criteria, and if there is a part of this house which says that we will do this to stifle growth, then i have to ask the reverse: have those who have not complied with the stability and growth pact in recent years experienced growth? and did those who observed it least have the greatest growth? i think that the analysis of the results in the member states these days shows that the opposite is true. but what is in the ferreira report is a real innovation. it should help us in the future to recognize early on -- and i think this is fundamental -- that in some countries something is wrong. if we had known this early on, we would have been spared greece, ireland, portugal, spain and perhaps italy, and we might have seen years ago that something is not going the way we think it is. i would just like to see the commission use this instrument effectively, and achieve its objective, which is to work for the good of the union and the people who live in it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the stability and growth pact, the comprehensive framework for economic governance, supports and is compatible with the union's strategies for growth and employment, with the aim of increasing competitiveness and social stability. it is therefore necessary to provide for penalties to punish fraud, to pay fines into a central fund for the permanent crisis mechanism and to regulate financial markets more closely. finally, i believe that the austerity measures under discussion today risk undermining social equity policies. this is not the case with the ferreira report, which i voted for and which introduces considerable elements of social balance. it is the rest of the package that is wrong because it is all about austerity and austerity and it does not promote growth. europe will have a future only if we can combine strict accounting with the objectives of development, growth and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world crisis has led to instability and the inability of small and micro-enterprises to survive, which are a feature of much of the european business fabric. the measures adopted today with the adoption of the six-pack will help to prevent macroeconomic imbalances, but small and micro enterprises must be given immediate support. that is why, with colleagues from various political groups, we have tabled a motion for a resolution calling on europe to introduce a measure providing for a tax exemption for micro-enterprises for three years of up to eur 30 000 in annual profits and a bonus corresponding to the social security contribution for micro-enterprises that employ a young person on a permanent basis. we shall thus be able to prevent the exit from the market of many of the factors which guarantee employment and development and we shall be able to reduce unemployment, which has reached excessive levels to the detriment of social stability. we also remind the council of the need to initiate the trilogue with parliament on the regulation on designations of origin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we have voted on to prevent macroeconomic imbalances between the 27 countries is certainly an innovation compared with the previous situation. it lays down rules and controls and, in particular, introduces the concept of symmetry whereby the commission must assess not only deficits but also surpluses. in practice, contrary to what is usually assumed, that there are some bad countries, such as greece or italy, countries like germany and the netherlands are being put under control because they have too little domestic consumption. the regulation also incorporates a federalist perspective and thus insists on the concept of equity, which in our view represents one of the positive elements of the future of europe and the member states. equity and solidarity will be the preconditions for european growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have greatly appreciated the work that mr ferreira has done with this report. in fact, on the package of six legislative proposals on economic governance, my group and i voted in favour of only this one. we have done so because, among other things, a clause has been inserted to protect social rights from the point of view of collective bargaining and there is also a strengthening of parliament's role in the adoption of delegated acts. so while it cannot change the overall balance of the six-pack, this report certainly does make a step forward in having, among other things, a monitoring system which takes account of fundamental rights. and so, in this context, while we are convinced that a vision based on a policy of austerity alone does not produce positive results, this report is certainly a positive note in the face of this trend.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we also voted in favour of the goulard report because it introduces mechanisms to prevent macroeconomic imbalances, finally made up of rules and guarantees, rules and guarantees which have been lacking until now and whose lack has been felt so much during this phase of the crisis. there is a new phase of accountability, control and also surveillance of budgets in the euro area, with mechanisms that are semi-automatic - and this is one of the major criticisms that have been put forward - but with sanctions that are finally imposed on any macroeconomic imbalances that may occur. it is a decisive step which, if i may use an analogy, will be completed by the following steps which, by a coincidence which is also fortuitous but important, president barroso has announced today: the introduction of the tobin tax, the taxation of financial transactions, means that the moments of crisis and difficulty are not paid for by households alone, that the prevention of crises is not always and only paid for by the producers of material goods, but also by those who operate in the financial market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the feio report revises the stability and growth pact and thus finally establishes - i would like to remind you of this now that we have reached the conclusion after one year since the proposal was tabled - a control which imposes a 5% reduction on those states whose debt-to-gdp ratio is above 60%. it does this by introducing and clarifying the debt criterion and the procedures with respect to the pace to be followed. in this overall economic context, the commission will have to take account of a number of characteristics before it assesses and makes its recommendations to the member state. it introduces the basic principle that by reducing debt, there is less interest to pay and therefore the possibility of having more spending power in terms of investment and growth, which is the real objective we have to focus on in the coming months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regular availability of up-to-date and reliable budgetary data is the key to regulating public expenditure and enabling rapid corrective action in times of crisis. i therefore share the need to allow the commission to monitor, with the help of a tax authority, the compliance of the budgetary rules of the individual member states. in this context, i would like to stress that, under the treaty, the establishment of a medium-term financial framework does not affect the right of newly elected governments to amend the programme choices previously adopted. it is therefore necessary that this directive be applied faithfully and that the commission constantly monitor its application. in order to avoid that the intervention has a practical effect which is not cosmetic but useful in achieving the main objective of the directive: uniform respect for budgetary discipline as required by the treaty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year ago, when the first problems of the greek economy and then of other countries began to emerge, i was interviewed by the european channel. and one of the things that i raised was actually the attention on statistics that has allowed some countries to rig the accounts. the ford report which we voted for and supported today introduces criteria for the transparency and independence of the national statistical institutes, with penalties for those who commit fraud and forgery. it is a fundamental report, as it aims to avoid a lack of transparency in the processing of statistical data and to make them uniform. this will enable the european government and the governments of all countries to proceed in a uniform manner, and thus to have uniform criteria not only of knowledge but also of action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution recalls the statement made by vice-president ashton on the occasion of the world day against homophobia. in that statement, catherine ashton reiterated the european institutions' strong commitment to all actions to combat violence against any person on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. i am glad that this parliament, with the resolution we voted, has decided to do the same. i would like to point out, however, that my vote in favour of the resolution has only one shadow, the contrary which i wanted and had to express in paragraph 11, where, once again, certain political forces tend to surreptitiously introduce inconsistent arguments, making mistakes both in method and in substance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of the more than a hundred members who voted against this measure, not because i do not share the strong condemnation of homophobia or the need for the european union to be the first to respect its charter of fundamental rights, but because i believe that what has been introduced - as mrs mazzoni said - in paragraph 11 is an attempt to hide it, which is a film we see over and over again. because whenever we talk about topics which are broadly or generically relevant to the problem of gender recognition, there is always someone who for political purposes or to pass legislation which europe should impose, according to the idea of some, on the member states to recognize other genders besides male and female, introduces elements which have no relation to what is being discussed. i think that this europe which wants to legislate something that is contrary to the laws of nature which have created us as men and women is a europe which should try to revise its positions and which should make greater efforts to guarantee the civil and sexual rights of everyone and not take advantage of every step of this kind to introduce elements that have nothing to do with this. i therefore voted against this report with great discomfort.
in writing. - mr president, on 13 september we voted to amend the frontex regulation by asking the commission to draw up an operational plan to make the agency more effective and to give it an adequate budget, not only to support human resources but also monitoring and intervention equipment. a few days later, we are voting on the motion for a resolution which finally increases the commitment appropriations to some eur 41.1 million for the management of the flows of migrants and refugees, allocating these to the frontex agency, the external borders fund and the european repatriation and refugee fund respectively. i welcome the proposal further because, following the principles of logic and consistency in ensuring an optimized and wasteless allocation of community funds, the new resources come from the under-utilized appropriations for the line 'energy projects to support economic recovery'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that it directly concerns one of the most important issues for the political activity of the northern league, namely the management of illegal immigration. the report focuses on the redistribution and strengthening of european funds for the management of the phenomenon, also taking into account recent developments in north africa and the impact they are having on the eu in terms of illegal immigration. the report aims to strengthen the financial capacity of the frontex agency and the european return fund, which are the eu's main tools for tackling immigration, by a total of eur 41.1 million. the proposal therefore interprets the needs and priorities of our immigration policy and that is why i have chosen to express myself in a positive way.
in writing. - i find this report to be extremely timely and entirely agreeable. it is right that the european union should be able to change the way it uses its appropriations, especially to deal with the pressing emergency affecting the countries of north africa and which has serious repercussions, mainly for the italian coasts and territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the light of the reiterated need for funds, the council's recent position is even more out of place, proposing several cuts in the area of the protection and defence of the external borders for the next 2012 budget.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i can only support the resolution we have just voted on on the strengthening of the draft budget for the management of the flows of migrants and refugees following what is happening in north africa. it is precisely because we are living in a time when this is one of the problems on the agenda that there is an absolute urgency for action which is strong and decisive, which sees the whole of europe united in its development and support and far removed from any other approach. it is important to avoid situations such as those which occurred in italy a few months ago, where the country found itself facing a situation out of control, with an island such as lampedusa invaded by men, women and children fleeing a catastrophic reality of war. in those days the concept of european solidarity was wavering, when it should be one of our priorities. a joint, concerted action with european union resources to manage migration flows will not only benefit the mediterranean coastal regions, but will be an effective instrument for the benefit of all member states.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs jędrzejewska on her excellent work. the approval of the budget amendment to allocate an extra eur 43.9 million for the management of the flows of migrants and refugees shows that the european parliament is united when it comes to political developments in the countries of the southern mediterranean. the additional funds will be used to help member states most affected by flows and to improve the patrolling of the seas by the european border agency frontex, which will receive extra funding of €24 million. the remainder will go to the european refugee fund (eur 12.2 million), the external borders fund (eur 4.9 million) and the european return fund (eur 2.8 million).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that more resources must be allocated to deal with the exceptional flow of migrants and refugees caused by the recent events in the countries of the southern mediterranean. in particular, i agree that these additional funds should be used to help the member states most affected by this phenomenon, especially for the patrolling of the seas by the european agency for the management of the external borders, frontex.
in writing. - my vote on the moreira report as regards the eu-argentina agreement is in favour. the key points on which agreement must be reached, in full respect of the rules of the multilateral trading system, have been well identified.
in writing. - the european union, through its enlargement policy, has consequently enlarged its customs union, but has had to adapt to the requirements of wto rules. this has involved the opening of negotiations with wto member countries with negotiating rights with one of the acceding countries in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment. the agreement reached with argentina, for which i voted in favour today, allows the south american country to see its trade rights restored, which were slightly reduced as a result of the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of romania and bulgaria. this agreement is further evidence of the european union's commitment to the rules of the multilateral trading system, in the hope of contributing to the common desire to reach a comprehensive agreement in a relatively short time.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this too. i agree with the rapporteur that australia has the right to have its trade rights restored, which were slightly reduced as a result of the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of romania and bulgaria.
in writing. - the agreement with new zealand is also necessary, especially to compensate for the increase in consolidated duties. my vote on the report on the eu-new zealand agreement amending concessions in the schedules of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the eu is in favour.
in writing. the s&d group is also calling for the introduction of a european taxation system that would allow taxpayers to pay their own tax on their income. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the s&d group had asked, as a condition for its support for the package, for the introduction of a golden rule capable of 'saving' productive investment from the cuts. the alliance between the epp, alde and the eurosceptic conservatives of the ecr, backed by the council, rejected this possible compromise, making our negative vote inevitable, which challenges a line that is destined to aggravate the sovereign debt crisis and to seriously affect both social cohesion and europe's growth prospects.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted the need to review and strengthen the existing instruments for the multilateral coordination and surveillance of the economic policies of the various member states. that is the ambitious aim of the economic governance package voted on here today. the stability and growth pact is based on the objective of sound public finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability, strong and sustainable growth and employment. we can therefore benefit from stricter forms of supervision which ensure that member states act in a consistent manner and in line with the union's financial coordination framework. this new strategy must focus on developing and strengthening the single market, promoting international trade relations and competitiveness, and preventing and correcting excessive budgetary imbalances. the council and the commission must make their positions and decisions public at the appropriate stages of the coordination procedures. we also believe that it is of the utmost importance that the strengthening of economic governance goes hand in hand with the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of european governance. in this respect, the role of the european parliament must be strengthened throughout the monitoring process.
in writing. - having carefully analysed the legal basis used and the objections raised by the commission, i think it appropriate to vote in favour of the report by mrs wortmann-kool on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies. it is clear that the stability pact needs to be reformed on the basis of the experience of the last few years. i agree in particular that in the event of a serious recession, not only economic but also social, a temporary deviation from the budgetary policy as defined by the regulation should be allowed.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain on this and the other reports on the implementation of the new european economic governance. these measures may be useful, but they are late and they show the failure of the community's economic policy since the introduction of the euro. the maastricht treaty and the subsequent stability and growth pact already provided for certain criteria to prevent dangerous situations, and we have seen how they have failed miserably: greece in 1999 did not meet any criteria and only two years later was already in the euro; in addition, portugal, another country in enormous difficulties today, was the first to receive warnings in 2002 about its deficit situation. all these rules in the past were useless: we shall now see whether these new initiatives will be of any use in at least trying to save the salvageable.
in writing. - the monitoring of the budgetary policies of the member states is strengthened and the power of scrutiny and initiative is transferred from the council to the commission, two of the most important points in the wortmann kool report which i fully share. it is important that the commission assesses the annual stability programmes of the member states, provides an opinion and can issue a formal warning indicating the steps to be taken by the member state at risk of default. i also agree with the compromise solution on the failure to take measures to put an end to the violation of the rules of the preventive part of the psc which takes place through a 'two-stage voting procedure'. i also support the possibility for the european parliament to call a state which is the subject of recommendations by the council to report to the econ committee of the parliament. i take this opportunity to compliment the rapporteur.
in writing. - today's vote comes two weeks after some member states, led by france, had given up on asking for the commission's reports to be approved by the council. we in the house were afraid that this provision would encourage backroom dealing between governments. instead, the agreed agreement will oblige eurozone countries to find a majority to reject the commission's warnings, which will otherwise be directly applicable. the euro area countries will therefore no longer be able to ignore the commission's warnings on budgetary policies. in addition, economic governance legislation should encourage national governments to correct a problematic economic situation more quickly, ensure greater transparency and democracy in decision-making and improve the quality and reliability of statistics.
in writing. - at a time of extraordinary and very serious economic crisis, europe must face up to the problems of its citizens. i voted in favour of this report because, as things stand, we need more effective governance within the eu area, which will allow us to achieve greater stability and ensure future economic growth. more competitiveness for european businesses, more employment opportunities and the fight against growing poverty are the objectives to be achieved by the commitment of the community institutions and all the member states, in order to enable the european union to emerge from the crisis and not to delegate economic growth to speculation on the financial markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the goulard report, which has the merit of establishing control and surveillance of the budgetary and macroeconomic imbalances of the european countries, allowing greater rigor to be applied to the stability and growth pact. just like i voted for the whole so-called six-pack. the texts adopted today by the european parliament have finally given the green light to a european strategy based on rigour and stability. the proposals put forward today by president barroso in this house are also moving in the right direction, although they need, in my view, a certain and rapid timetable. we have a duty to give concrete and encouraging signals to the financial markets and, even more importantly, to our citizens. the package of measures we have approved today must therefore be further improved and strengthened. i therefore hope that as soon as possible european action will be taken to combat poverty, financial speculation and commodities, a clear policy of fiscal convergence and precise regulation on pensions, working time and cuts in current expenditure.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree in particular that the commission's annual policy recommendations should be discussed in the european parliament before they are examined by the council. furthermore, the improved economic governance framework needs to be based on a number of interlinked and coherent policies for sustainable growth and employment, in particular a union strategy for growth and jobs that focuses on the development and strengthening of the internal market.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs goulard on her report, which is both technical and rigorous. the psc would be meaningless if it were not backed up by a system of financial sanctions. and i agree with the gradual modus operandi (first as a fruitful deposit, then as a fruitless deposit, and finally as a fine) for countries that do not comply with the obligations of both the 'preventive' and the 'corrective' part of the psc. i also support the reference to eurobonds. these can be a good form of funding for europe, but it is important that there is a serious and dedicated discussion on the subject and that it is contained in a separate proposal, which the commission has undertaken to present.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because, on the basis of the european commission's proposals, i believe it is essential to put in place an enhanced economic governance package, in the interests of all member states. especially at a time when public debts appear to be threatening the very existence of the single currency, it is necessary to adopt a more robust and effective european framework for the surveillance of economic policies. this comprehensive reform of community governance must include a strengthened role for the european commission as the independent guardian of the economic policies and guidelines of the member states.
in writing. − improving the economic governance framework should be based on a coherent and interlinked set of policies for sustainable growth and employment, based on a sound union strategy for growth and employment. we cannot do otherwise to ensure that the existing imbalances are reduced. mr haglund's report seems to me to be heading in that direction.
in writing. - like mrs goulard's report, mr haglund's report is an important and fundamental corollary to effective surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances. without a serious deterrent, the introduction of the excessive imbalance procedure would be in danger of being foiled. in particular, i agree that if the alert mechanism indicates the existence of excessive imbalances, the corrective procedure should be initiated and the commission may issue a warning to that state. in particular, if the state fails to take appropriate measures, financial penalties (equal to 0.1% of gdp) are to be applied.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion today is of particular importance because it concerns the adoption of the package of legislative proposals on economic governance aimed at defining a solid framework for the coming decades, ensuring compatibility between fiscal discipline and economic growth in the european union. the comprehensive economic governance framework should support and be compatible with the eu's strategies for growth and jobs and with the objective of increasing the competitiveness of member states and social stability in all regions of the union. the experience gained during the first decade of the functioning of economic and monetary union highlights the need for an improved economic governance framework which, in my view, should be based on two main elements: a stronger national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and a stronger system of european surveillance of national economic policies. i also welcome the provision for sanctions to punish fraud or failure to act on agreed recommendations without any reasonable justification. finally, i believe that improving the framework for economic governance cannot be achieved without greater regulation and supervision of financial markets.
in writing. - i abstained on this report on the new regulation on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. on the one hand, the report's objective is certainly to be welcomed, since it proposes the adoption of measures to avoid a repetition of financial crises such as the one in greece. however, such measures would involve significant eu intervention in national budgets, which could result in excessive eu interference in the economic affairs of the member states. i therefore prefer to abstain from voting on such measures until it is possible to assess in detail how they will affect the member states themselves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important regulation because, as the report shows, valuations and related transactions are considered to be reliable. the articles have been prepared with care and precision without ever deviating from the fundamental objectives we have set ourselves: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we must take advantage of this time of crisis and uncertainty to reform our legislation by drawing on our past and present experience. it is therefore essential that the european parliament continues to play a leading role in monitoring the economic policies of the member states. while the adoption of the regulation is an important achievement, its transposition into national law is an even more important objective in ensuring that the legislation is properly implemented by the member states and that no obstacles or barriers to the single market are created.
in writing. - my vote on the ferreira report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is in favour. improving the framework for economic governance cannot be separated from greater regulation and surveillance of financial markets.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, mr ferreira's report is important because, although it does not directly touch on the stability and growth pact, it broadens the range of factors to be taken into account in order to have a clear and comprehensive picture and to be able to make a complete analysis of the states. the procedure for identifying macroeconomic imbalances is fundamental and i agree with the establishment of the table of quantitative indicators, as well as qualitative assessments. at the same time as for the psc, the excessive imbalance procedure (eip) is the sine qua non for the commission to be seen as a true guardian of rigour and stability.
in writing. − preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances is an important means of addressing the fragility resulting from the eurozone and financial market crises. the text of mr ferreira, for which i voted in favour, is part of the so-called 'six-pack', which provides a concrete basis for strengthening european economic policies: but only if we see the approval of the economic governance package as a starting point and not as an end point can this provide a solid platform to emerge from the crisis and restore hope for new economic growth in the eu area.
in writing. − a comprehensive and integrated solution to the euro area debt crisis is needed, as a piecemeal approach has not worked so far. it is right that parliament should have clarified this. i also agree that the commission should play a more decisive and independent role. it is essential that there is a strong commitment to the recovery of the stability of the euro. the permanent resolution mechanism should be adopted by the ordinary legislative procedure and be inspired by the union method. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of the feio report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support the report by mr feio. it is crucial that the assessment not only looks at the deficit but also at the debt. the numerical criterion for reducing the public debt at the 'appropriate pace' required by the treaty, according to which the difference between the current public debt and the 60% reference value must be reduced at an average rate of one twentieth over a period of three years, is therefore appropriate. another key factor is that in applying the public debt rule, the commission will have to take into account 'all other relevant factors' (including private debt and the characteristics of the banking system), which is crucial for countries with high private savings.
in writing. - the report on the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the report by mr diogo feio essentially supports the commission's approach, albeit with some changes. the main change is that debt reduction is requested at an average amount over three years instead of a fixed amount for each individual year. in addition, the list of relevant factors which are taken into account during the verification has been amended and updated. finally, member states with a derogation will be able to apply the regulations whenever they wish.
in writing. − i agree that the need for a comprehensive and integrated solution to the euro area debt crisis stems from the fact that the piecemeal approach has not worked so far. the achievement and maintenance of a dynamic single market should be regarded as an integral part of the normal and proper functioning of economic and monetary union. my vote on the ford report on the proposal for a council directive on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states is in favour.
in writing. − national budgets are at the heart of the commission's control and are the starting point for sound and sustainable financial policies. the starting point is therefore the minimum requirements which the public budgetary procedures must meet at both central and local level, in order to ensure that certain parameters are respected and above all to allow for the comparability and analysis of data. and to avoid waste of time and regulatory differences, i am glad that the transposition of the directive at national level does not necessarily require new laws, but will be sufficient administrative acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs ford, which stresses the national nature of tax regulations and insists on the independence of the statistical and tax institutions. while broadly following the european commission's approach, the text proposes interesting changes which particularly concern the member states outside the euro area and those which will not adopt the use of the euro in the immediate future.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against this motion for a resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity. although the document is aimed at the issue of sexual orientation, towards the end there are some clauses that call for the promotion of the right of asylum and the right to free movement. these clauses, which are completely outside the scope of the document, appear to be an attempt to promote illegal immigration and the principle of non-return and are therefore unacceptable. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - i have spoken against this resolution because i believe it is right to protect the rights of all, but of course there must be limits. i cannot accept at all that the alleged rights include the family right, as explicitly stated in paragraph 11. the family is one and only one, that is, one consisting of a man and a woman. only the union of a man and a woman can naturally allow the family to expand and to be truly complete by the birth of children. i therefore feel that this resolution goes far beyond what is acceptable: the european union is certainly not going in this direction for the first time, but we in the league will always reject this idea, which is not acceptable. the family must remain the traditional one: father, mother and children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr sawicki, commissioner cioloş, the programme for the distribution of food aid to citizens at risk of poverty is a very important instrument for the survival of the weakest sections of our society, a mechanism which has been a success of the common agricultural policy in recent years and which allows the union to distribute 440,000 tonnes of food free of charge to over 18 million poor and needy families every year. a number that unfortunately affects many children and is set to increase at a time when access to food is being defined as a fundamental right. we cannot therefore but express our disagreement and our disapproval of the minority of the council of agriculture ministers who voted in favour of cutting aid. we are aware of the court of justice's ruling and we will work to ensure that there is a text after 2013 which clearly takes account of the court's findings, but we certainly cannot afford to interrupt this programme. i believe that while europe today is discussing 500 million euros of a programme to help the poor, in the united states for over 40 years the american law, the fair deal, has been looking at aid to the poor with a programme of over 20 billion dollars. i think it is therefore really necessary to intensify all our efforts and i thank the polish presidency and minister sawicki for this, and i also thank commissioner dacian cioloş for the courage and strength with which he has taken this problem to heart. we have to figure this out.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think there is no doubt that it is the public's responsibility to support people who live in poverty, and it is our responsibility to make sure that our 500 million citizens have at least enough to eat. there's no doubt this program will also win us sympathy. i think we live in a time where sympathy doesn't do us much harm. i would remind you that not long ago in this house we adopted agenda 2020, which states that poverty reduction is a goal by the year 2020. if we now abandon a programme which is moving in this direction, it is not entirely consistent, especially in view of the fact that food will certainly not be cheaper in the next few years, but rather more expensive. but it must be a real programme to combat poverty and be implemented in coordination with the member states, which are responsible for social policy. it cannot be a programme which, as in other countries - and it has been mentioned here - in the united states of america, is a very simple instrument of agricultural policy, which is therefore primarily concerned with reducing surpluses. we do not need the scale used in the united states, for example, which is a very significant percentage of the total agricultural budget in the european union. our agricultural policy is completely different. it will therefore be essential to reopen the programme in the short term, i.e. always within the current financial framework, and to ensure that it is continued. in the long term, we will probably have to consider, in the spirit of the court's ruling, whether other methods can be used to achieve this better.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to help clear up a misunderstanding. the principle of subsidiarity not only defends the prerogatives of the states, but also makes it clear that if a state is not able to provide, the higher level intervenes in subsidiary terms. the possibility of the european commission intervening is therefore well founded, as the polish presidency has understood, as has the european commission. we must therefore do nothing but mobilize our efforts to meet the needs of 18 million people, who are obviously not being met by the government of some countries. we must do this and we must also be careful in doing so, that is, do we want to move on to the social chapter? that's great. but beware, we would lose the virtue of the agricultural chain, which has been able to manage the surplus mechanism well and we would perhaps also lose the possibility of clarifying when social matters should be a matter for national or community competence.
the resolution on the rio+20 summit puts the spotlight on the crucial principle of equity. equity on an international global scale which ensures the right of developing countries to their development; intergenerational equity that does not make those who come after us pay the price of our decisions; this is a fairness that becomes a genuine solidarity and a vehicle for new sustainable development. we must reject the old conception of three independent pillars - economic, social and environmental - and instead recognise the interdependent nature of these elements because they are indivisible. setting the conditions for truly sustainable development requires not only that we develop new standards, such as the project beyond gross domestic product, but also that we ensure the active involvement of all parties at all levels of governance. it is by focusing on the indivisibility of equity, solidarity and global governance that we can shake off the screen of false freedoms and return to models of society centered on the person and the common good. rio+20 is therefore a call for high ethics, and in this context the proposals put forward by the european parliament are of value, both from the financial and from the purely technological point of view: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the assessment of the impact that biofuel production may have on food supply and biodiversity, with a focus on the overall assessment of the technological impact on the environment and societies. our proposals are intended to prepare the ground for an international conference which will really mark a political turning point in the planning of the development of the planet.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un conference on sustainable development is the continuation of previous world summits and also takes up the contents of the un millennium summit held in 2000 and, in this case, the millennium development goals. i believe that the sustainable economy represents an opportunity for european businesses to grow, provided they set themselves realistic and achievable targets, avoiding unjustified increases in production costs that would expose them to competition from countries not subject to the same constraints. it is essential that the european union can put in place an effective international strategy to ensure that european environmental legislation, which is currently among the strictest in the world, is also adopted by third countries through comparable and binding commitments. this is a priority objective in order to ensure that european companies have a level playing field which enables them to remain in the market and to be globally competitive. to this end, we believe that the main lever on which a stronger strategic approach should be insisted is the strengthening of international partnerships for the promotion and diffusion of sustainable and low-impact technologies in emerging and developing countries. it is essential that, if a comprehensive agreement is not reached, europe cannot and must not engage unilaterally, or else the business system will fail. a weapon of pressure against third countries which do not want to commit themselves to an environmentally friendly future is the imposition of customs duties at the frontiers, proportionate to the assessment of the economic advantage they derive from their failure to commit themselves.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much for the parliament’s expression of active support and for your useful written input on rio. as i have heard this debate, there is clearly a very strong resonance with our communication and the position we are developing in the commission with the council, so thank you for that. we are looking forward to continued cooperation on the very long way to achieve what we want in rio. we must work together now to get a strong eu position for our input into the un system which should harness and express our common ambitions for rio, and i think we are well on track to meet that. i will make a few comments on everything that has been said. first, mrs merkies said we need specific goals. the commission very much agrees with that. that is why we will try to come up with tangible proposals for specific goals when it comes to water, energy, the oceans, sustainable agriculture and forestry. we will really try to make very tangible proposals. the other question from mrs merkies was how we are going to do it. there, i think we have something to offer in the european union, because we have very good examples that pricing works and we have very good examples that setting targets works. i would also say that with the millennium development goals, although they are not perfect, the world has seen that setting such goals helps to keep a lot of governments focused on what they need to deliver: access to water, access to education and so on. they have not been perfect and they have not been fully fulfilled, but the world has basically moved in the right direction, so that is why we should continue along this way. when the millennium development goals were set, it was in a world that did not speak too much of environmental goals and not too much of energy goals and that is why we need to get that into the rio+20. mr stevenson was in favour of moving to a green economy provided that it cost nothing. this is not doable. it is true that to make the transformation into a green economy will demand investments. i think that it is very important to emphasise that to continue business as usual also comes at a very high price. we heard some of it here today: the depletion of fishing stocks, for instance, forestry, nature or raw materials. it is a misunderstanding in the debate that if we simply continued business as usual then it would cost us nothing. what we are talking about is whether we want to invest in business as usual – and then clean up afterwards and pay the very high price – or we want to choose a wiser development strategy and get the growth we need for the nine billion that have been mentioned many times. as long as we still have this choice, i think it is very important that the european union is trying to push the world in the right direction. that leads me to my third and last point. i agree with mr gerbrandy who spoke about the issue of whether to be sustainable or not. but then the question of course is whether the eu should then influence these kinds of global conferences, and i understood that the answer from mr clark would be no. i must say i disagree strongly. i think that we have a very fine track record in europe over many years, that we can actually try to push the world in a better direction by our very strong involvement. i think we should try to do that also for rio+20. the world is at a very important crossroads and i think the world would be poorer if we were not investing our energy and our policies in trying to use influence here. that is what we should do, and i look forward very much to working with mr leinen and the rest of the parliament to get a strong and united eu position on our way to rio – hopefully to achieve not just a lot of words and fine declarations, but things and recommendations that can lead to immediate action moving the world into a more sustainable place.
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what do we know after 20 years of rio? we know a lot more. science has advanced to the point where, thanks to the work of the ipcc, we have a much better understanding of the impact of human activity on the earth. this should be a lesson to us and it should make us realize that we don't have time. we don't have much time left. research is ongoing, and it's not inconceivable that we've entered what we call peak oil. what if now china, india and other countries on the fast track of development repeat the logic of development of japan or korea? this issue, which is, in a sense, a certain fear that our grandchildren will not have a way to live on this planet - that, ladies and gentlemen of the house, is our problem, not our grandchildren's. so it's very important to get out of the exponential growth logic, to go faster every year than this year, and faster the next year. so that's the way it is, that's the logic. the european union has a big role to play here. the european union has shown its leadership on many occasions and we are also making a huge effort now, and commissioner hedegaard knows well, and i know as well as the polish presidency, the difficulties we face in talking to the biggest emitters, trying to convince them to match their pace with the european union. we can't just sit on this. rio must be the next step, the next response to these threats that are becoming a reality. it's important that we take the green economy seriously. the green economy is not an issue that can cause poverty, quite the opposite. the green economy should be run in this way to create new jobs, to ensure our prosperity, to fulfil our aspirations and at the same time to provide jobs. so this is a game that is quite sophisticated and we have to learn how to play it. now, a word about technology. we don't have all the technology yet. we do not have all the technology available to us to say with certainty that we are only, for example, renewable energy. but if the technology of energy storage develops - let's just say that - maybe this beautiful, perfect world will be possible in a few dozen years - 20, 30, 40 years. i would like to emphasise once again my pride as the polish presidency in participating here too in what we call the european union's leadership. listening to mr florenz, and listening to mr jo leinen, i am confident that the european parliament, together with the council and the european commission, will provide that leadership and that we will be able to see the sustainability issues as real progress at this important conference in rio. thank you very much. thank you.
i have received a motion for a resolution1 in accordance with article 115 (5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 september. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. 1 and see the minutes.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on european union support for refugees in tunisia.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, today the first meeting of the eu-tunisia task force took place, whose aim is to support the democratic transition and economic recovery. this year europe's financial commitment has been doubled and i naturally welcome this because tunisia, with which we have a privileged partnership, has also agreed to take in sub-saharan refugees fleeing the war in libya. the european union, which has repeatedly reiterated its commitment to refugees, must support and help tunisia to manage these migratory flows in full respect of human rights. norway, which is not part of the european union, has agreed to take in more than 300 refugees, while the eu member states agree to take in less than 400 refugees altogether. i consider this to be a deplorable and shameful attitude, a real affront to the principle of solidarity which should animate the european union's mediterranean policy. i would also remind you that these refugees are currently being held in communal camps in unlivable conditions. in this very chamber this morning the european parliament approved by a large majority the allocation of eur 43.9 million for the management of the flows of migrants and refugees following the repression of authoritarian regimes and movements linked to the arab spring. this additional funding will be used to help member states most affected by floods and to improve frontex's maritime patrols. we reiterate our support for a europe that is committed to promoting human rights and managing migration flows, and we reject the idea of a xenophobic and closed-off european stronghold. the european union is paying the price today for its support of the dictatorial regimes in north africa. the former friends gaddafi and ben ali have fallen or are falling and their populations are fleeing repression. i would like to know where the european union's joint resettlement programme stands at the moment, which is blocked in the council. i ask you, madam commissioner, who are extremely sensitive and operative, how the european union can make a real commitment to this humanitarian emergency. finally, i take this opportunity to ask the commissioner whether she is aware of what is happening in palermo, where 250 migrants are being held by the italian authorities on board a ship, without any measure having been issued to authorize their detention and denying them both the right to freedom and the right to communicate with the outside world. thanks to numerous reports submitted to the palermo prosecutor's office by numerous associations fighting for human rights in palermo and sicily, the palermo prosecutor's office itself has launched an investigation. this follows the extremely serious events that occurred in lampedusa last week where the situation is out of control and the safety of both the local population and the migrants themselves is at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that this parliament has just today adopted an amending budget which provides for more specific resources for the funds for refugees, to measure the interest of parliament in such a complex and delicate matter. the winds of freedom of the arab spring continue to blow. after the fall of the berlin wall and the reunification of the two german states more than 20 years ago, the mediterranean has also ceased to be a boundary between the peoples of north africa, and in particular those of south africa. we need these readmission agreements and we need, commissioner malmström, above all the definition of those bilateral agreements with tunisia, with libya, with egypt, which we have talked about and on which you have worked with great interest many times and sometimes we were probably not lucky. the free elections in october are a strong signal of this momentum towards the affirmation of fundamental rights. we must take serious, concrete and credible action to cooperate in good neighbourly relations with tunisia. at the same time - and i refer to the passage by the commissioner - on the subject of solidarity, only eight states would have given their readiness for resettlement. it is too little and, in my view, too modest for the states themselves to be prepared to deal with the serious problems which lampedusa and pantelleria continue to suffer. i have personally been to pantelleria and to lampedusa, the migrants who were not refugees were migrants who destroyed the two facilities that housed them because they had to be repatriated. we must distinguish between economic migrants and refugees and protect fundamental rights, remembering that the european union must take a leading role in the mediterranean and probably has not done so so far.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some 23 million people in europe are unemployed today and over 113 million are at risk of poverty and exclusion. after more than two years as the permanent rapporteur on the european globalisation adjustment fund for the committee on budgets of this parliament, i have been closely involved in the operation of one of the youngest and most effective instruments available to the european union to support the labour market. since its creation in 2006, the egf has supported more than 75 million redundant european workers and has alone re-skilled more than 10% of the unemployed in the period 2009-2010. its success is demonstrated by the steady growth in the number of applications for support, the willingness to extend the derogation due to the economic crisis and the reconfirmation of the existence of the egf in the next financial framework. however, this fund has room for improvement, since it is very young, especially as regards simplification of procedures and acceleration of the time taken to disburse funds. i therefore hope that this parliament and the european commission will work closely together to identify the new areas which could be opened up to support the fund, such as agriculture, but also the public sector and the precarious workers. my group, the epp, therefore welcomes the resolution by mrs berès, to whom i extend my congratulations, and i therefore hope, especially at the end of the vote, that it will be a united, compact vote, because the citizens of europe need this parliament to be united and compact.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the few years since the fund was set up, it has proved to be a useful and effective instrument. especially in the last few months, if you look at the number of applications that were submitted between 2007 and 2009 and those that were submitted between 2009 and 2010, you will have the indisputable confirmation of this. now, it's obvious that part of his nature has changed. it was created to help workers in companies that were being reorganized as a result of globalization, today it mainly helps companies that are affected by the crisis. the crisis also affects workers in small and medium-sized enterprises. we should also think about those, but nothing takes away from the value and usefulness of the fund. what the fund needs to see quickly is a change in some of its rules so that funding is more consistent and, above all, access to the fund is much quicker than is possible today. that's what we have to do.
author of the book. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the many colleagues who have signed this oral question. the european union's objectives in the fight against climate change have led to the implementation of community policies and measures that are very challenging for european industry. the co2 emissions reduction target is currently a unilateral commitment that puts much of the european industrial system and energy-intensive industries in particular at serious risk of carbon leakage. the objectives of reducing emissions, which are shared in their purpose, must, however, be pursued in a realistic and pragmatic way. we call on the commission to assess, as precisely and accurately as possible, the instruments for implementing the ets and the financial compensatory measures envisaged, in order to avoid imbalances in the internal market in the european union. directive 2003/87/ec as amended in 2009 provides for an obligation for thermal power generating companies to purchase allowances for all their co2 emissions from 2013 onwards, with the consequence of passing on the higher costs to the price of electricity and thus a significant increase in production costs. eurostat estimates that the additional cost of the ets to european industry, in terms of higher electricity prices, will be €8.5 billion per year. indirect emissions, as compared with direct emissions, do not benefit from a compensation system which avoids unequal treatment between industries in the same sector with different production processes and with clear distortions of competition within the european union. if an equivalent indirect emission compensation system is not set up, the risk of relocation of firms will be very high. the choice of sectors at risk of carbon leakage based on the nace code classification is simplistic and reductive, as it does not allow the identification of the specific energy-intensive production, with the consequent effect of not allowing the provision of compensation to the subsectors. for the production of steel, there are two production processes: electric furnace and full cycle using fossil energy and low electricity; will receive almost all the direct quotas free of charge. the electric furnace, on the other hand, will only receive 30% of the allowances free of charge because of the absence of a compensation system for the electricity share, despite emitting one fifth of the co2 compared to the full cycle. so in europe we will have the same product which, depending on the type of production process, will suffer an increase in price. concerns about this market imbalance have been raised by several parties, from several industrial sectors, as can be seen from the responses to the public consultation launched by dg competition. in order to safeguard the survival of industry in europe and to ensure employment and welfare, how does the commission intend to proceed with state aid to the energy-intensive sector? could the proceeds from the sale of the shares not be used to compensate for the imbalances that will be created from 2013? are we sure that the sale of shares will not lead to speculative maneuvers? how does the commission intend to remedy the competitive disadvantage?
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have denounced, both in the commission and in this house, the risk that ets allowances will be turned into instruments of financial speculation, leading many companies to relocate to third countries because they are no longer competitive in europe. the impact of transferred co2 emissions on the price of electricity will affect the industrial system in different ways, penalising those sectors with higher energy consumption, such as steel and aluminium. does the commission consider that the compensation should reflect the actual price increases suffered by farms in different member states and that it should be guaranteed as long as the risk of relocation persists? in addition, should not financial compensation be guaranteed for energy consumed as well as for energy purchased from outside? bureaucratic procedures for allowing companies to benefit from state aid encourage unfair competition by companies located in third countries. does the commission consider that these are too burdensome and should be simplified?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very concerned about this issue because this directive could have a major impact on the energy-intensive sector. i would point out that the additional costs of making the system more efficient will be able to generate investment to finance research and development. i believe that this can guarantee a benefit to businesses and the whole industry, both in terms of increased productivity and in terms of innovation. it is also important to highlight the importance of the employment impact. we must prevent discrimination between processes and sectors from leading to a relocation of firms outside europe and thus to the loss of firms which make a decisive contribution to the production, distribution and consumption of wealth. the labour market and productivity, represented by investment in new technologies, are two fundamental pillars for a sustainable economic growth in europe. i would therefore like to stress the need to avoid the imposition of higher direct and indirect costs leading to market distortion and thus to a reduction in competitiveness.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must thank all the members from all the political parties who have spoken and who have strongly supported my question. i cannot say that i am satisfied because then there is the catch-the-eye and then the commission speaks; i think that is a contradiction and i hope that we will adjust the rules in that direction. i have to say that i will do so through the press, but - if the commissioner representing the commission will allow me to do so - i am very disappointed with the answer he has given to my questions. i think the commission is not going to wash its hands of this, it is such an important problem because of the magnificent way in which it has been represented by my colleagues, and i hope that the commission will in the meantime answer my questions, the questions i raised in my speech, and i hope that it will take a serious look at this great problem which is afflicting europe: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
in writing. - mr president, i am in favour of amending the egf regulation on the temporary derogation introduced in 2009 in order to broaden the scope and increase the level of european union co-financing from the original 50% to 65%. the need for a further extension of the derogation is essential in this context of serious economic turbulence and the heavy sacrifices imposed on citizens and businesses, especially as this fund represents one of the few instruments of concrete solidarity put in place by the european union to save so many unemployed workers and smes on the verge of bankruptcy. therefore, this fund cannot be depleted in this emergency situation, also taking into account that the annual growth report does not show prospects for economic growth and job recovery for 2011 and 2012 but only from 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the regulation establishing a european globalisation adjustment fund. in view of the deep financial crisis which has been affecting almost all the world economies for the past three years, it is essential to give top priority to the support and protection of workers in all the sectors most affected by the crisis. the new amendment will make it possible to use the fund for a wider range of workers than originally envisaged. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission's recent economic forecasts, published last spring, indicate a much less optimistic outlook for economic growth and employment recovery in 2011 and 2012 than in the autumn of 2008, on the basis of which the content of the derogation of the european globalisation adjustment fund was constructed and its duration was defined. in summary, a substantial recovery in labour market conditions at european level is not expected before 2013. these assessments, together with consideration of the difficulties facing member states' budgets as a result of fiscal consolidation efforts, are the reason why i am voting in favour of the report and why i am very enthusiastic about the commission's proposal to extend the egf to the next multiannual financial framework. in a context of severe economic turbulence and heavy sacrifices imposed on citizens, it would be a grave mistake to undermine the fund, which is also perceived by the public as one of the few instruments of concrete solidarity put in place by the union during the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bères report, which aims to amend the egf regulation by dealing with the temporary derogation introduced in 2009 to increase its scope and increase the level of eu co-financing from 50% to 65%. the proposal, which i find very interesting, aims to introduce a new derogation (from 31 december 2013 instead of 2011) to allow member states to continue to apply for assistance for workers made redundant as a result of the severe economic crisis and to benefit from a co-financing rate of 65% from the fund.
in writing. − i hope that this resolution will have unanimous consensus as the right of palestinians to self-determination and to have their own state is unquestionable. the eu has repeatedly confirmed its support for the two-state solution, on the basis of the 1967 borders. for this reason the eu and its member states must be united in addressing the legitimate demand of the palestinians to be represented as a state at the united nations. this text clearly asks the eu to play a more active role, also within the quartet, in the efforts aimed at achieving a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. the “arab spring” made even more urgent the necessity to find a solution to the israeli – palestinian conflict. in order to do so, the israeli government must immediately stop all constructions and extensions of the settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. at the same time a cessation of rocket attacks on israel from the gaza strip is imperative. i strongly believe that palestine is ready for sovereign statehood and that the success of state-building efforts of palestinian president mahmoud abbas and prime minister salam fayyad must be recognised without any delay.
in writing. the resolution on the situation in palestine was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the resolution calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism. the resolution also calls for recognition to be the result of negotiations within the un general assembly. the text adopted affirms 'the indisputability of the right of the palestinian people to self-determination and to a sovereign state of their own, as well as the right of the state of israel to exist within secure borders'. parliament called on the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness ashton, and the member states to reach a common position on the palestinian demand to avoid divisions, and stressed that the international community should reaffirm its commitment to ensuring israel's security.
in writing. - mr president, setting realistic and achievable medium and long-term objectives is the aim of the measures to be discussed and adopted at the rio+20 summit in june 2012. twenty years after the first summit, the world is still facing two great challenges: improve the lives of the world's population and alleviate pressures on the environment. challenges that are becoming more and more difficult to cope with, as the number of natural disasters seems to be increasing in recent years, many of them attributable to human activities that do not respect the surrounding environment. consider, for example, the drought and desertification in the horn of africa and the malnutrition that is now affecting over 13 million people. acting and affirming political commitment in support of sustainable development and the green economy is and must be the policy line of the european union to reduce the worsening of climate problems at an alarming rate and to help some 1.4 billion people out of extreme poverty.
in writing. − i sustained this resolution because the united nations conference on sustainable development to be held in rio de janeiro in june 2012 represents a unique opportunity for world leaders to set the sustainability agenda for the next 10 years. the rio+20 summit represents a crucial occasion to reinforce the political commitment for sustainable development at global level and to discuss an integrated approach to address the multiple challenges such as poverty eradication, health, food, employment, gender equality, climate change and energy supply. i want to highlight that those problems cannot be solved in isolation. for this reason with this resolution we call the commission and the council to ensure a strong and unified eu position is submitted to the un before 1 november 2011, as input to negotiations starting early in 2012.
in writing. the resolution on the earth summit rio+20 was voted at the plenary session in strasbourg today. the un summit on sustainable development in rio de janeiro should achieve concrete objectives, including on renewable energy and energy efficiency as agreed in parliament today. parliament supported the european commission's call for a green economy road map, stressing that sustainable growth required new measures and concrete targets. the resolution calls for an end to environmentally harmful subsidies and for an international financial transaction tax to support climate and biodiversity protection.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the request for an opinion of the court of justice on the eu-morocco fisheries agreement because i believe that the question of western sahara has been used in an inappropriate way to justify this motion and in clear contradiction with the position of the eu and the member states. the text contains highly negative political signals towards morocco, whereas the eu, and i confirm this as a member of the euromed delegation, is instead aiming at supporting europe's mediterranean neighbours who have chosen to consolidate democracy and the rule of law. the compatibility of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement with international law is established by legal opinions, issued not only by the united nations but also by the eu institutions, including the european parliament. the motion for a resolution attempts to reopen a question which has been amply clarified by these legal opinions, and there is no reason to justify this except the desire of some to jeopardise relations with the eu's strategic partner, represented by morocco.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what has just been said, i and my italian colleagues from the epp in the intergovernmental delegation to tehran are absolutely against this trip to iran and we ask the bureau, which had decided to give the go-ahead, to reconsider this action which is only publicity for the government in tehran.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you rightly pointed out, the worsening situation in egypt has affected the large christian coptic minority in that country and raises a question which also concerns the legitimacy and the hope we have in the democratization process linked to the arab spring, namely the process of re-constitutionalising these countries. that is why we had hoped that the resolution could be voted on tomorrow. we understand, however, both the technical difficulties and the need of the other groups to focus on a text. we ask that this text should have as its clear and prominent subject the situation of coptic christians in egypt at the time of the vote on the resolution in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the view of the polish presidency that europe will have a future if we can restore confidence. to do this we need - as many have said - stability and growth. this is through the political will of our leaders. however, if the much-desired reforms are not implemented within a few months, they will paradoxically become the pretext for eurosceptic criticism, where the same words that we use in a constructive and positive sense will be used against the project of a united europe. if we do not act soon, the words 'nation', 'people', 'identity' and 'employment' will be used as a bullet against the viability of the project of a united europe. so let me return, commissioner, to the subject already raised by mr ferber, of the timing and the manner in which the commission intends to make its proposals available to parliament. we share in the strongest possible terms the announcements you made in president barroso's previous speech and in this one as well. but when, how and where will you specify the nature of the proposals you are making to parliament? because missing this train puts us in a position to lose you our support as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president barroso has said some important things today, but there are a number of points that need to be clarified. i would like to highlight three of them. firstly, the fiscal union of the euro area. finally someone has noticed the existence of article 136; however, the president of the commission spoke of a commission-council procedure. in fact, article 136 also provides for the possibility of regulations. it is possible that under article 136 the council votes by seventeen and parliament by twenty-seven. we would like to know whether the commission intends to propose regulations under the ordinary legislative procedure under article 136 for the conditionality of the stability mechanism, as parliament has requested. secondly, the stability mechanisms. the 21st of july is fine, the emff is fine, but the truth is that the quota system does not work. you must tell us whether you think that the emcf, which still exists, can continue to operate, especially after the german court's ruling, and whether it is therefore possible to think about a communityisation of the stability mechanism. thirdly, the german cdu secretary said today that he wants to move from monetary union to a stability union. without growth, development and employment there is no stability. you should tell us whether the commission agrees with this.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, finland and the netherlands opposed the council for a very simple reason: bulgaria and romania are currently unable to ensure effective border controls and are the scene of rampant corruption involving the political class and organised crime. this is not the view of populist parties and movements, but of europol in its 2010 report on organised crime. there is no populist propaganda, but a serious security problem. if bulgaria were to join the schengen area at this time, the police and security agencies predict that bulgarian borders, especially those on the sea, would become easy targets for turkish and eastern european crime, and bulgaria and romania would become the crossroads of human and drug trafficking. it is natural that some member states have many reservations about the real ability of bulgaria and romania to ensure effective border controls against organised crime and corruption, and it is therefore quite natural that they have opposed their entry into schengen. allowing this now means opening the way to transnational crime and opening a door on europe's borders, precisely where there is a very strong migratory pressure from turkey. the reasons for opposing this are many and europe cannot ignore them. i therefore ask what the commission and the council intend to do about this sensitive matter, which in my view has been dealt with sufficiently so far and without taking into account the dangers that the accession of bulgaria and romania would entail, according to the competent bodies, in terms of international security and crime. in my view, the commission and the council should postpone the accession of these two countries to schengen and give the go-ahead only when there is reasonable assurance that the accession of bulgaria and romania will not have repercussions on the security of european citizens.
in writing. the opposition to the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen airspace is due to one of the main aims of european policy: the precautionary principle. it is more than foreseeable that some member states, already receiving large immigration flows, will be put under even greater strain by the entry into the schengen area of two countries which do not seem to have achieved a sufficient level of control of the external borders. this is particularly true of the border between bulgaria and turkey. the free movement of citizens can only be allowed if it is certain that this does not determine: increase in micro-crime and illegal immigration, decrease in security and risks to public order. the figures on the fight against organised crime in these two countries are certainly not comforting for those who are concerned about a serious and effective european policy against the mafias.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the massacre in egypt to prevent a protest by salafi muslims against the burning of a coptic church shows how far democracy is still from being achieved. beyond the difficulties faced by copts when they seek permission to build a church, based on a law dating back to the ottoman empire, there are increasingly numerous attacks on christians by muslim extremists. the protests, instead of being guaranteed by the military authorities that rule egypt, are being suppressed in blood. paradoxically, these religious conflicts and these repressions were less frequent in mubarak's time. but there are other worrying signs that are disappointing expectations about the so-called arab spring. i am referring to the attack on the israeli embassy and the consequent withdrawal of the ambassador, the attacks on the gas pipelines in sinai, the calls by some political parties for a revision of the peace treaty between egypt and israel and, finally, the strong advance of the islamist parties. since the european union has rightly increased its political and financial support for egypt, should we not apply the füle-ashton doctrine of 'more for more', and therefore also 'less for less', by directing aid to the political, social and trade union forces which promote democracy and stability in egypt?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the massacre of christians in egypt is only the latest in a long series of atrocities perpetuated, first and foremost, on an institutional level, where christians are branded from birth, with the mention of religion appearing on all official documents, and at a time when the constitution states that in egypt the official religion of the state is islam and the sharia, the qur'anic law, is the main source of legislation. christians in egypt today are 10% of the population. in the 7th century, it was 99%. since 1945, ten million christians have left the southern and eastern shores of the mediterranean. in the last six months, 93,000 christians have left egypt. this is ethnic cleansing. i ask baroness ashton to go beyond complaints and resolutions which have no consequences and no concrete action. if in libya we thought about bombing that population, i believe that in egypt we must at least consider the adoption of sanctions to enforce fundamental human rights and the absolute and universal values that are the sanctity of life, equal dignity between persons and religious freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, christians in egypt are the victims of yet another power struggle. more generally, all the victims of the arab uprisings and revolutions risk being killed twice, because, if, perhaps, after a cycle of elections we have in these countries constitutions that deny freedom, deny rights and express discriminatory norms, the reason why all these people took to the streets will be betrayed. now, it's clear that god is not present in the american constitution and the sudanese constitution in the same way, for example. god is not in the french constitution and he is not in the chinese constitution, but the result is not the same. we must be credible interlocutors so that in the determination of the new constitutional texts we are recognized in common values that guarantee freedom. that is why europe must make its voice heard, otherwise we risk at this moment switching from regime to regime, jeopardizing what has been achieved in these months.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we received a delegation of citizens who described themselves as 'outraged'. some have come a long way to brussels, some have even walked from iceland. outrage is the exact opposite of cynicism, indifference and resignation. it is a non-violent and transparent way of demanding that the current european crisis be tackled by rewarding the assertive european institutions, the protagonists, not at the mercy of national governments, but above all to tackle this crisis with real instruments of popular participation. the european union will have to face difficult, even unpopular, choices. the meeting yesterday was brief but significant, because it showed that we must take advantage of this crisis to oppose the tribal fragmentation of europe, a europe that is struggling to have a common vision, but above all that we must fully involve citizens in processes from which they have felt excluded until now.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank the honourable members for their replies to my introductory remarks. also, i have to thank the european parliament for a very constructive approach towards this mechanism and also towards the cooperation between the commission and the national parliaments. i am deeply convinced that the good work of the subsidiarity control mechanism and its efficient application is in the interests of all of us. this is not about blocking european integration but about making it more transparent to the citizens and also more democratic, because the issues are, in this manner, being brought closer to the hearts of citizens and to their concerns. i also very much welcome the positive tone and constructive approach of the speakers and the roles of the national parliaments in this debate, because their role is also essential when it comes to the building of an inclusive europe that resonates in the capitals of our member states and is closely linked to the concerns of the citizens. the commission is fostering an active political dialogue with the national parliaments. this has been very fruitful, as has been demonstrated by the numbers of opinions and reasoned opinions. we would, of course, very much encourage this tendency to continue in the future. on the question relating to the committee of regions, of course we cooperate with the committee of regions very closely. the committee can play an active role in the mechanism and, most importantly, ensures that there is a voice for local and regional authorities at european level. more specifically, the committee of the regions’ subsidiarity monitoring network provides a very good access point for regional and local authorities, and can enable the commission, in some situations, to reinforce the analysis of regional aspects in its impact assessments. it can also help the commission to strengthen the analysis of subsidiarity and proportionality in the future. in conformity with the protocol on cooperation between the commission and the committee of regions, the commission regularly provides the committee of the regions with comments on its opinions. as regards the subsidiarity control mechanism and regional bodies, we have to respect the treaty. the treaty is very clear in this respect, because it states that it is for each national parliament or each chamber of a national parliament to consult its appropriate regional parliaments with legislative powers. we have to respect the treaty in that respect. the first and last questions were on how the mechanism works in practice. i have to say that the national parliaments have been quite efficient and effective in their responses to the legislative proposals from the commission. it does not look as if they have a particular problem with respecting the eight-week deadline, and we are absolutely punctual when it comes to the legislative deadlines. at the same time as the legislative proposal is sent to the european parliament and to the council, it is also sent to the national parliaments. we have seen that within eight weeks the national parliaments are ready and able to send us their opinions. what we are trying to do now in the commission is to be more efficient in terms of responses. the commission has installed a new it system which is making it easier to record all the responses, and it is trying to improve the quality of its responses to the national parliaments and to work in more detail on the opinions we receive from the national parliaments. as has already been said, two years after the lisbon treaty entered into force, the subsidiarity monitoring mechanism is working very well. i am sure that it will be a very important tool for involving the national parliaments more closely in the process of european cooperation.
the agenda includes the report by mr david casa, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the future of vat (2001/2082 (ini)) (a7-0318/2011).
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular mr casa, for his positive and constructive report on the green paper on the future of vat. when this commission began its mandate, we felt that the time had come to have a fresh look at the european vat system, which has now been in place for over 40 years. it is indeed high time to develop a new and modern vat system – fully compatible with the single market and with newly emerging business models – which should continue to ensure and even improve its role as a revenue raiser in the long term. the green paper on the future of vat presented in december 2010 constituted the first step in this process. the overwhelming reactions from stakeholders confirmed that there was a need for such a debate. more than 1 700 written contributions were submitted. they generally confirm that the current vat system is too complex and burdensome, primarily because of the existing divergences across the eu. this is quoted as a major obstacle to maximising the benefits of our internal market, in particular for smaller businesses. one conclusion that can already be drawn is that our initiative has created considerable expectations. indeed fundamental changes to all major aspects of the vat system are advocated by business stakeholders as well as the general public. the next step in this process of reforming vat will be a communication to be presented before the end of 2011, identifying a comprehensive strategy for a stable and long-term vat regime. clearly, it will not be possible to tackle all aspects of vat at once. the communication will set out the ultimate objectives to pursue and make a distinction between those areas in which progress can be made in the short term and those areas which will still require more substantial work and in which results can only be expected in the longer term.in the forthcoming debate of the college on its work programme for 2012, i will propose new initiatives directly linked with one of our main priorities, namely consolidation and sustainable growth. in this framework, concrete proposals will follow the new vat strategy. they will cover issues such as a rapid reaction mechanism, vat governance with the business community and a reduction in the administrative burden for businesses. the opinion of parliament expressed in this report often reflects the view of the stakeholders. it is also ambitious. for the commission, this is positive and encouraging. i can already assure this house that its opinion will be given full consideration.
on behalf of the ppe group. (replacing iliana ivanova, draftswoman for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the development and full implementation of the internal market cannot be achieved without effective and efficient vat. i fully agree with the report drawn up by mr casa, which points out a whole series of shortcomings and also gives a kind of procedure to be able to fill these shortcomings. i would urge the commission to do so quickly, because i strongly believe that we are behind schedule. the next vat system cannot do without serious and timely harmonization, with common rules, to avoid those competitive advantages which are detrimental to businesses and consumers and therefore detrimental to the internal market, especially for companies with cross-border activities. so in this sense, cooperation can only be established if there is a real and genuine will on the part of the states, and we must abandon these national egoisms. another important point raised by mr casa concerns the reduction of bureaucratic formalities, also in order to reduce the administrative burden of complying with vat obligations. this is a real paradox. smes pay much more than larger companies, i.e. they have higher costs, especially if they have a trans-community activity. the measures to be implemented must therefore be geared to greater simplification, but also to strengthening legal certainty for businesses and administrations. so what kind of models do i want? the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. europe is focusing heavily on small and mediumsized enterprises. finally, the next vat strategy - let me take this step, ladies and gentlemen - must also lead to the widening of the tax base to encourage fiscal consolidation. at a time when there is a crisis going on, i think everyone should pay. it is not just the weaker classes or the fixed-income citizens who have to pay.
replacing markus ferber, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of public finances in many european countries is now before everyone's eyes. so this is not the time to fight over principles, but to focus on shared objectives such as restoring the sustainability of public budgets and then to focus on objectives that are certainly more far-reaching. i would therefore like to congratulate mr casa on his excellent work. the report, while building on the solid foundations of the commission's green paper, focuses on very significant points. i think the reference to the reduction of fraud is particularly helpful in this respect. where citizens are asked to make further sacrifices to improve the accounting situation of important european countries, we must not leave the side open to evasion and fraud. the community's transactions must be placed within a simple tax framework, certainly in order not to burden the companies, which are already burdened with these reliefs, with additional administrative costs. i think that another aspect which needs to be stressed, and on which i think mr casa has done a good job, concerns the stakes which this resolution sets for a more healthy development of the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. this seems to me to be a totally acceptable objective, especially at a time like this when the market needs a stimulus to start again and to move resources and at the same time generate wealth. i congratulate my colleague again because i think this resolution is balanced and focused on the real priorities. so now is the time to act.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr casa, for his work. i am pleased that the report makes numerous references to administrative and, above all, bureaucratic simplification. by also making use of the technological and digital tools that are now available to us, these measures can be of great help, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to stress in particular an amendment which i tabled and which was accepted, which is aimed at introducing a vat exemption threshold for small and mediumsized enterprises throughout the european union. this can reduce costs and burdens and, above all, facilitate wider access to the internal market, especially for young entrepreneurs. i also appreciate the efforts being made to improve the efficiency of vat collection. this is necessary to prevent possible fraud, which has unfortunately been very frequent in recent years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i find the work done by the rapporteur, mr casa, in this report very appropriate. the european parliament's position on the reform of the vat system was necessary and i believe that the objectives it set out very strongly are fully to be shared: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. in particular, with regard to the instruments to promote harmonization, very adequate account is taken of the need to safeguard national autonomy at all times and in all circumstances and thus the full application of the principle of subsidiarity. these are the two main points on which i think the commission should reflect in the next few meetings. as regards the exemption, it is certainly appropriate to clarify the exemption for associations, non-profit organisations and ngos, but in doing so the commission will have to take full account of the need to clean up the system of exemptions which have been abused. on the other hand, we must work on legal certainty and the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and adaptation to technological innovation processes, because this is very useful for businesses and the market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are certainly wrong signals coming from the world about the approach we need to take to revive the economy, with our great focus on regulating financial markets but less attention on what are the possibilities for the development of the world economy. since we must get out of the debate between the rigorists and those who support growth, because this europe and this world need rigour in the management of public debt and public resources but also need to grow, we must look with great concern at these signs of protectionism coming from the united states, which also come from argentina, which also come from brazil with the introduction of new taxes, which come from regions of the world such as the difficulties being experienced by mercosur. we must therefore have a great capacity for attention to understand that world markets must be expanded, defended and enlarged and that barriers must be removed in order to promote development. mr caspary made a very interesting proposal and i believe that we, in the logic of opening up world markets, must launch a great marshall plan, a new marshall plan for the developing countries, so that they can compete with the big players who compete with us. on the same day that the house voted down obama's "buy american" bill - which we are contesting - the us senate passed a bill on the yuan issue and the strengthening of the yuan against the dollar. these are also measures which must be included in a new management of world monetary policy. we need, alongside an open world trade policy, to safeguard the community's interest and we also need a new bretton woods to define the monetary system of this world.
mr president, i shall be very brief. lower costs for small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, simplification and reduced administrative burdens, as well as clear and streamlined procedures for the export of firearms for civilian use, increased cooperation with third countries, high safety standards, effective action against arms trafficking and even better traceability of weapons. in a world which is constantly expanding, this is, in the first place, a practical response to the tragic events in norway. these safety standards will affect tens and tens of thousands of sportsmen and leisure enthusiasts. i thank the shadow rapporteurs, the inta and libe committees, the secretariat and, of course, the hungarian and polish presidencies.
madam president, the confidence of european consumers in the financial system has been put to the test in recent months, and the case of belgium is a clear example of this. i am convinced that compensation mechanisms for potential consumer losses in the event of the insolvency of financial institutions and insurance companies, together with insurance guarantee schemes, can be a valuable aid in reducing the risks of contractors and beneficiaries. i voted for this report. however, i would like to stress that european consumers do not have the means to be adequately informed in the event of the insolvency of insurance companies. this information must be easily accessible, complete and easy to follow, but above all consumers must have clear indications as to which authority they can rely on in the event of a claim for compensation.
the legal mechanism designed as a transitional solution to adapt the vat system to the abolition of internal frontiers is showing its shortcomings and limitations. the risk of fraud is high and this is a problem that must be solved as soon as possible. if we also consider the considerable increase in commercial transactions between operators established in different member states and the increase in the provision of cross-border services, the reform of the vat system seems clear and inevitable. i voted in favour of mr casa's report, but i still think that the reversal mechanism should be further developed. in particular, we are not able to foresee at present what the effects of the concentration of financial risk exclusively on the retailer would be.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, on the basis of the consideration of the possibility of a single agreement replacing the numerous bilateral agreements concluded in the past, and still in force, between cape verde and eu member states. the agreement will simplify and harmonise the recognition of eu air carriers and bring existing anti-competitive provisions into line with the community legal framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr riquet's report because i believe that it is necessary to approve the eu-cape verde agreement quickly in order to complete the harmonization of the rules in force in this field. in particular, cape verde has concluded eight bilateral agreements, the provisions of which, however, need to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement at the level of the european union. the new approval was necessary after the court of justice of the eu ruled in 2002 that certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements between member states and third countries in the field of air services were contrary to article 49 tfeu. on 5 june 2003, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations to replace the provisions of the bilateral agreements with an agreement valid at union level, since the european union also has exclusive competence in this area.
in writing. - i support this recommendation because i am in favour of greater cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde in the field of air services. it is now absolutely essential to establish mutually supportive relations between member states and third countries in order to ensure greater efficiency and integration, which can improve the aviation sector in the field of tourism and trade. i therefore stress the importance of replacing the traditional designation clauses with a single eu designation clause, which allows all eu air carriers to benefit from the right of establishment in third countries. in the present case, since 2002, cape verde has concluded eight bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which need to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement. this would make trade in the aviation sector simpler, more transparent and more efficient. this will not only improve the current eu-cape verde relations but also simplify future aviation issues with other developing third countries.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring a uniform framework for air services between the member states and cape verde is important both for the safety of our passengers and for economic relations with the african country. that is why i voted in favour of mr riquet's text, which aims to regulate the management of air services with cape verde from a european perspective. until now, fragmentation and one-sidedness in the conduct of aviation services reports had led to agreements which did not reflect the continental unity which reflects our work in this institution. mr riquet's text transposes the council directives and directs the management of transport service agreements between the member states and cape verde towards a horizontal and unified approach, rather than a bilateral one. i am sure that the terms and the spirit of this resolution will bring benefits and opportunities from the economic and commercial point of view.
in writing. − the european union has exclusive competence in air services. however, agreements in this area must be based on criteria of effectiveness, proportionality and subsidiarity, and must be in line with an essential objective of the union's external policy in the field of aviation. in the present case, cape verde has concluded eight bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which need to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement at european union level. we therefore support the conclusion of a single agreement aimed at replacing the traditional designation clauses with an 'eu designation clause', so that all air carriers in the european union can benefit from the right of establishment.
in writing. - i shall certainly vote in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on certain aspects of air services. all air carriers in the european union must be able to access air links with third countries without discrimination. i fully support the agreements with cape verde.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the proposal for an agreement on air transport between the eu and cape verde. we are in an age where i think it is necessary that there are procedures to deal with this kind of activity in the best possible way, in order to ensure the safety of citizens and the control of goods. i also believe that simplification in the adoption of a single agreement at european level for the establishment of air carriers in third countries is an element we need.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe it will allow all airlines in the european union to have access without discrimination to air links between the eu and third countries. in particular, article 2 of this agreement aims to replace the traditional designation clauses with a single european clause allowing all air carriers in the union to benefit from the right of establishment, preventing cape verde from discriminating on grounds of nationality between air carriers of the member states.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes (igs) are a useful tool for reducing the risks faced by policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance company. in my view, the next few years will see an expansion of crossborder activities and, as consumers will increasingly find themselves buying insurance services from companies in markets without or with divergent sgi, the question of the uniformity of consumer protection will inevitably arise. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for the assessment of the desirability of a european approach in this area, which i fully share, especially in view of the wide variety of systems currently in existence in the various member states of the union. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that, in view of the serious implications of the insolvency of a national insurance undertaking on the general level of market confidence, the supervisory authorities of the member states should subject them to specific european-wide stress tests in order to verify the real capacity to cope with the insolvency of one or more insurers and to make recommendations on any shortcomings found in the models applied by insurance undertakings.
in writing. the econ report supports the introduction of a homogeneous system of insurance guarantee schemes within a legally binding framework. the introduction of this system is particularly necessary at the present time, when banking and insurance finance are in crisis and the detrimental effects of the crisis are also felt by the final consumers, who in the event of the failure of insurance companies are now without uniform protection at community level. the measure would help to restore consumer confidence in the insurance financial environment and would also close some regulatory loopholes in consumer protection. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on insurance guarantee schemes, the so-called igs, which are fundamental instruments for consumer protection, for reducing the risks for policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance company. however, this is a very complex area both in terms of the wide variety of insurance systems in the member states and the implications of the future application of the solvency ii directive. this directive introduces a range of supervisory measures to be implemented before the insurance company is declared bankrupt. in this respect, i support the rapporteur's position that there are four main and strategic areas of consumer protection, irrespective of the country of origin, in the event of bankruptcy, fraud or the use of unorthodox sales techniques, and of taxpayer protection in the event of the insolvency of an igs. these are sectors where a european dimension of the igs is needed, through a harmonization directive based on an equal level of consumer protection irrespective of the insurer's geographical location.
in writing. − developing an effective insurance guarantee schemes (isps) policy and implementing it in a methodologically correct manner is a delicate and complex task, especially in the absence of a mechanism to compensate for losses suffered by consumers in the insurance market. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. the commission's proposal is a complex one because the generally accepted parameters are not necessarily good for all member states. the commission's work in this respect is therefore to be commended, because the rigorousness of the method has been matched by the necessary flexibility. providing for a subsidiary role for the national gaos to provide more guarantees for consumers is a sign of sensitivity and high professionalism. the directive on uniform crossborder standardisation for sga is very broad and consistent and puts the commission in the position of guaranteeing the consistency of the common insurance guarantee system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that particular attention should be paid to transparency in the exchange of information: in the event of insolvency by the insurer, having a single, cohesive contact point for all financial guarantees will ensure that the directive really benefits consumers.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr skinner's text because i believe that european legislation on igs is necessary but at the same time to be carefully considered and evaluated because of the possible recessive effects on the market. if it is true that, on the one hand, the protection of the customer who takes out a policy to cover the risk of the insurance company being insolvent must be our priority, it is also true that igs must ensure, in a period of economic crisis, a broad outlet to national and, above all, european markets. i believe that the text of this resolution is in that direction and seeks to combine these two aspects with a vision that does not prejudice the protection already guaranteed by some member states. consumer protection against the risks of insolvency of insurance companies must be ensured by measures which are both effective in preventing risks to customers and also allow insurance companies a margin of manoeuvre to operate in the free market.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes (igs) are considered a valuable tool for reducing the risks faced by policyholders in the event of an insurance company's insolvency. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for the assessment of the desirability of a european approach. the problem is complex, not only in view of the wide variety of schemes currently in existence in the various eu member states, but also in view of the interactions between igss and the other issues currently under consideration at eu level, in particular the imminent introduction of the solvency ii directive. our objectives are: consumer protection in the event of the insolvency of an insurer; consumer protection irrespective of the country of origin of the insurer; consumer protection in the event of fraud or the use of unorthodox selling techniques (mis-selling); protection of the taxpayer in the event of the insolvency of an igs. we believe that these four strategic objectives can only be satisfactorily achieved through a minimum harmonisation directive which ensures a level of consumer protection irrespective of the geographical location of the insurer with which the policy is subscribed and limits the exposure of taxpayers to claims by policyholders on the markets.
in writing. - the consumer is almost always the most affected by the effects of the economic crisis. the insurance industry is a case in point. i therefore agree with mr skinner's report on the proposed surveillance measures.
in writing. - the insurance market, too, has shown the need for greater consumer protection and guarantees, particularly in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company, particularly in the light of the recent financial crisis. igs, or insurance guarantee schemes, are designed to provide protection against possible risks. this report proposes greater harmonisation of igs at european level, in order to cover the risks that may arise in the event of non-compliance by companies with cross-border activities. the adoption of the principle of the country of origin for applying surveillance measures is right, but a key role must also be played by eiopa, the european authority set up specifically to monitor the european insurance system. this report puts consumers at the very centre of its concerns, with numerous references to greater protection and guarantee for them: i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr skinner's report, to which i have also contributed a number of amendments in the econ committee. i believe that, alongside what is already happening in this respect for banks and investment companies, it is also appropriate to set up insurance guarantee schemes at european level in the insurance sector. however, i believe that, given the specific nature of the sector, if the principle behind it can be the same, the measures must be adapted and calibrated to the sector in question. for example, 'rcauto' policies which already have a mandatory cover pool and are restricted to life insurance products should be excluded from the scope of application given the need for greater protection of these products as long-term and often pension products. i also believe that it is essential to link the creation of the insurance guarantee funds with the prudential framework provided for by solvency2, which has yet to be fully implemented. i hope that the commission will take these suggestions into account when it presents its legislative proposal in the future.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes are a valuable tool for reducing the risks faced by policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance company. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for the assessment of the desirability of a common approach and, in adopting today's proposal, it welcomes the proposals made by the commission in the white paper on guarantee schemes in the insurance sector. the lack of harmonised european consumer protection rules in favour of 'host country' rules offers benefits but leads to a duplication of costs for pan-european insurance companies, which are forced to participate in different national schemes. in order to ensure consumer confidence both in the insurance sector and in the single market for financial services, it is necessary to ensure a uniform level of consumer protection for all types of insurance products. in this document parliament stressed that the new european legislation should not lead to a reduction in the protection afforded to consumers. european citizens must be able to rely on the coverage of a guarantee system for all types of insurance products and on the ability of that system to guarantee 100% compensation within a given period of time, uniform in all member states.
in writing. − madam president, as also outlined in the 2010 green paper on the future of the vat, the time has come to critically examine this instrument in order to strengthen its coherence with the single market and its capacity to increase revenue by improving its economic efficiency, robustness and resistance to fraudulent attacks. a simpler and more harmonised vat system would also reduce the operational costs for taxpayers and tax administrations, avoid market distortions, particularly in the transport sector, and help achieve the objective of the better regulation agenda of reducing administrative burdens by 25%.
in writing. the report on the future of vat contains positive insights and suggestions which should be carefully considered and evaluated in order to reorganise the tax structure of the member states and the relationship between the market and national bureaucracies. i welcome, for example, the fact that, alongside the simplification and harmonization of vat, there is talk of simplifying and reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on businesses in relation to their tax obligations arising from vat. simplifying vat will help both businesses and governments to reduce red tape and administrative burdens. the proposal to create a vat exemption threshold for smes extended to the whole of the community, also with a view to reducing administrative burdens and costs, and the encouragement of the use of electronic means by national administrations to facilitate cross-border transactions and bureaucratic procedures arising from vat, were also positive. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr casa's report, which i consider to be balanced as a whole and because i share its basic values, namely simplification, transparency and harmonisation, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. in the 17 years since its introduction, vat has undergone considerable changes by the member states, creating a disjointed and excessively burdensome system, but also becoming the largest tax revenue available to the states. however, the financial crisis, which affects the whole of the euro area, also requires a review of the taxation system, moving towards standard and neutral accounting. this would firstly create greater efficiency and simplification, and at the same time ensure the necessary reduction in the administrative burden on smes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes is a good one.
in writing. the process initiated by the publication of the green paper on the future of vat can only be supported. the need for restructuring the system cannot allow for any further delay, since the mechanism introduced on a transitional basis has shown a number of limitations, in particular with regard to the risk of fraud. the commission's proposal is to make the new vat system, together with the taxation of financial transitions, an important resource of the european budget. in the meantime, the call to the commission is to act quickly and to pursue the road taken, encouraging the member states to prepare all the necessary preconditions to avoid duplication and overlapping and to allow greater bureaucratic fluidity and a reduction in administrative costs. in times of difficulty it is important to devote considerable energy to counteracting the dispersion of resources caused by evasion and fraud. the committee therefore welcomes the report by mr casa and hopes that the commission will take due account in its proposal of the call for the adoption of mechanisms to make checks on crossborder fraud less haphazard, making the best use of mechanisms already tested in individual states or using all the instrumental resources made available by technological development.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr david casa which, together with the european commission's green paper, aims to stimulate debate with the interested parties, firstly on the current vat system, and secondly to find possible solutions to strengthen its coherence with the single market and its ability to increase revenue while also reducing compliance costs. i regret that the report does not contain a reference to the need to promote reduced and harmonised rates in the tourism sector and to the sensitive issue of the special vat scheme for travel agencies, a debate which has been stalled in the council since 2002.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr casa's text because i believe it is the most correct administrative and procedural approach to a subject of european interest from both an economic and a commercial point of view. the application models contained in the resolution deal in particular with specific issues also related to consumer protection and the risk of fraud. in particular, a new model for the collection of vat, using a specific bank account, allows for greater traceability and security to avoid illegal or fraudulent transactions in this area. i think that we need a more efficient and organized procedure for collecting vat, which will lead to the implementation of the system and a drastic reduction in bureaucratic procedures, on the one hand, and to greater security for consumers and the commercial sector in general, on the other.
in writing. - value added tax is an important source of revenue for the national budgets of the member states, although the regulations adopted at european level and implemented at member state level have many shortcomings which compromise their efficiency and compatibility with the requirements of a genuine single market. as regards the treatment of crossborder supplies, we share the assessment of the commission, of some member states and of many professionals and stakeholders that the country of origin principle, which the member states have committed themselves to respect, and which has been supported in the past by both the commission and us, is not feasible, mainly because of the lack of political support among the member states themselves. we therefore support the commission's initiative to recognise the status quo and to move to the principle of destination. a vat system based on the place of establishment of the purchaser, both for goods and services, seems to be a promising solution, but it needs to be accompanied by the introduction by member states of efficient one-stop shops to avoid the multiplication of vat registrations, the increase in compliance costs and the negative liquidity impact for internationally active companies.
in writing. - it is essential that the report on the future of vat be adopted. the objective of a common vat system must be achieved in the shortest possible time.
in writing. - i congratulate mr casa on his excellent work. the text that has been adopted is the european parliament's response to the commission's green paper on the future of vat, published in december 2010, and is a contribution to the preparation of the future european strategy on the future of vat, expected later this year. the main objective of this report is to strike a balance between maintaining vat revenue at the levels necessary to provide an important source of revenue, while ensuring that it does not stifle business activity. this could be achieved mainly by fighting fraud (which currently costs the eu €100 billion in lost revenue) and by reducing the glut of different exemptions and tariffs. in addition, the intelligent design of new vat regimes at european level would make life easier for honest entrepreneurs and help non-profit organisations in the supply of goods and services. in this context, i ask the commission and the member states to consider introducing a vat exemption threshold for smes at european level, in order to reduce red tape and costs and to facilitate access to the internal market.
in writing. - vat is an important source of revenue for the national budgets of the member states. its system, which is based on european legislation and is implemented at member state level, is, however, lacking in many aspects which undermine its efficiency and compatibility with the requirements of a genuine single market. the report adopted today supports the commission's intention to move to a 'broad-based' vat system. it is therefore necessary to solve, in addition to the problem of the deduction of input vat in relation to domestic production as a system as opposed to outsourcing, also the problem of the so-called hidden vat in supply chains. a vat system based on the place of establishment of the purchaser, both for goods and services, could be a solution.
in writing. - a review of the vat system, more than 40 years after its introduction, is essential, as the structure of trade in favour of increased crossborder transit has demonstrated the system's limitations and the great opportunities for fraud that can result from it. for my part, i hope that the legislative proposal will aim at further simplifying the system in order to reduce the administrative burden on businesses (largely due to vat formalities); the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. the number of enterprises in the community is estimated at 4 335 448 (99.9%). the reinforcement of simplification measures is therefore essential through the use of harmonised vat return templates; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. for intra-community transactions, the commission has stated that it is prepared to abandon the objective of taxation in the country of origin for a final taxation in the country of destination. such a mechanism would have the benefit of preventing certain types of fraud. but the proposal is not welcomed by small retailers, who see the system of vat fractional payments (one of the main benefits of the current system) being abolished, concentrating the financial risk on the traders who should pay the full vat to the retailer.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the appointment of jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank, as proposed in the text presented by mrs bowles. the experience acquired over the years in national and international economic and financial institutions is, in itself, a valid certificate of recognition for dr asmussen's candidacy. if this is not sufficient to establish the profile of a candidate for a key role, the questionnaire in the proposal provides a better analysis of the ideas, values and possible strategic choices that the candidate is prepared to put into practice in his or her role within the ecb. i therefore consider mr asmussen to be perfectly compatible with the office he will hold and with the institution which he will be expressing in his institutional and media relations. in a period of economic and financial turbulence, it is increasingly appropriate that the ecb be perceived as a strong banking institution with a clear economic policy line and which safeguards european interests, as it has been so far.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of appointing mr asmussen as a member of the executive board of the ecb. after the resignation of juergen stark this summer, i believe it is urgent to restore the integrity of the board, especially at a time of crisis such as the present one in which the role of the central bank is and has been crucial. i hope that the council will give the necessary green light as soon as possible, also as a message of cohesion and unity. i would like to take this opportunity to commend the ecb for what it has done and is doing to maintain the stability of the euro and of the european union as a whole. if it were not for the wisdom and effectiveness of its interventions, i do not know whether, during this crisis, the countries, particularly those in the euro zone, would have had the capacity and the strength to be able to withstand and sustain such financial turbulence on their own. fortunately, the ecb, in compliance with the treaties and its mandate, has acted without hesitation, demonstrating a european spirit which the other community institutions should follow.
in writing. − the european investment bank, whose shareholders are the member states, is one of the eu's most important financial instruments. loans outside the european union (eur 9 billion) represented over 12% of total loans in 2010. it is therefore essential to grant a community guarantee in the event of losses due to loans and guarantees for projects carried out in third countries. we therefore support the strengthening of the eib's capacity to support the eu's development objectives through improved evaluation and monitoring of the social and development aspects of projects. we believe that more and more timely action is needed in areas which favour the development of third countries, such as environmental infrastructure, including water supply and sanitation, sustainable transport and climate change mitigation and adaptation. we also believe that it is essential to increase the transparency of its external mandate operations and their support for the eu's foreign policy objectives, taking into account the longer-term perspectives, some of which are set out in the mid-term review recommendations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr kalfin's report because i believe that the text will, on the basis of the extension of the eib's mandate, promote better coordination of the achievement of eu objectives, greater accountability and transparency and an appropriate use of the guarantee provided by the eu budget. the increase in ceilings and the possibility for the eib to reinvest the proceeds from previous operations, as proposed in the draft regulation (ec) no 1638/2006, will allow the eu to support more strongly the eu's foreign policy objectives relating to its operations, the millennium development goals, as well as all those programmes that have an impact on the climate, ensuring environmentally and socially sustainable development.
in writing. - the decision by the european institutions to extend the scope of the european investment bank, giving it greater administrative and decision-making autonomy, shows that the european interest in developing the projects required within the union and in financing them is indeed considered important. of course, we must legislate properly so as not to risk the funds allocated being wasted, and mr kalfin's recommendation at second reading, for which i voted in favour, stresses the need to establish effective rules to specifically guarantee projects carried out outside the territory of the member states of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because, taken as a whole, it allows the eib to expand its mandate, giving it greater operational capacity to achieve the objectives set by the european union. this will allow for greater transparency and better use of the guarantee provided by the eu budget. on the basis of the results of the mid-term evaluation, it is now necessary to continue the eu guarantee on eib external financing until 2013.
in writing. - my vote on this report on the eu's subscription to additional capital shares of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) was decidedly against. the ebrd, which coordinates development projects in some 30 countries in eastern europe and asia, has also launched 44 projects in turkey. given the threats, including military threats, that the turkish government has recently launched against the eu and its member states, and considering that this same government is daily responsible for actions against democracy, against the rights of religious minorities and against freedom of expression, i cannot support this initiative in any way. similarly, the ebrd coordinates projects in countries such as the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, whose government is not only responsible for violations of freedom of expression, but also a key player in cases of corruption, cronyism and the promotion of unacceptable historical falsifications. i therefore vote against.
in writing. − the capital increase from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion, also to secure the triple a of the european bank for reconstruction and development, is a very important commitment that must be supported. the representatives of the union in the governing bodies of the ebrd should therefore encourage greater consistency with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, thereby ensuring a better effectiveness of the external policy of the ebrd. the institution will have to provide public and transparent information on its funding and the evaluation of projects and beneficiaries will be made public, resulting in more frequent and more stringent controls that will break the secrecy of the list of beneficiaries. in pursuit of the principle of transparency, the governor of the ebrd will be required to report annually on the promotion of the objectives of the european union's foreign policy and the europe 2020 strategy. this will ensure a more efficient system and avoid duplication of eib and ebrd investment. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the subscription of additional shares following a capital increase is a necessary step to maintain the ebrd's rating. this increase also responds to the need to create a safety buffer in the event of a future negative development of the investment portfolio. i think it is important to support this policy given the central role that this institution plays in ensuring stability in the financial sector as well as in providing a rapid response in situations of economic crisis. this operation therefore requires an evaluation/rationalization of the european investment banking system and greater cooperation between the banks belonging to the system. it is also necessary for the ebrd governor to consider the consistency of this request with other policies of major importance to the eu such as the europe 2020 strategy and the eu millennium development goals.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported this proposal to allow the subscription of new shares relating to the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), following the increase in capital from 20 to 30 billion decided by the board of governors on 14 and 15 may 2010. the guidelines set out in the report are to be seen as the basis for maintaining the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. among these, it is worth highlighting the role of transparency which the ebrd is increasingly called upon to play, also through the report which the governor of the bank is called upon to present in relation to the objectives of the european union's foreign policy. transparency in the financial operations of the ebrd will thus become the cornerstone of banking operations and will make investment management more effective and efficient. i voted in favour of mr bowles' resolution because i believe that a recapitalisation measure through the issue of new shares in the bank capital is the most appropriate way forward, which, as is equally important, will not have direct consequences for the eu budget.
in writing. − we support this proposal for a decision to allow the european union to subscribe to additional eligible actions of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) as part of the capital increase decided by the bank's board of governors on 14 and 15 may 2010. the decision shall authorise the governor of the bank for the european union to deposit the necessary instrument of subscription. the proposal is designed to generate new paid-up capital by converting accumulated distributable reserves into share capital. this operation will therefore not have an immediate direct impact on the eu budget. the risk arises from the possibility of having to call in additional capital in the unlikely event of a very negative development of the bank's investment portfolio. following this operation, the european union will continue to hold a 3,031% stake in the capital of the ebrd, with an increase in the paid-up capital from eur 157,50 million to eur 187,81 million and an increase in the recoverable amount from eur 442,5 million to eur 712,63 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs bowles' report. i fully support the european union's decision to subscribe to additional shares in the capital of the ebrd following the decision on the bank's capital increase. this would enable the union to promote and strengthen its objectives in the field of external economic relations and retain its voting rights within the esrb. i also think it is important that the european union governor of the ebrd should support the development of additional financial instruments and ensure that cooperation allows for better control and visibility of public funds in the eu.
in writing. − the european union's subscription of additional shares in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development following the decision to increase its capital would provide important assistance to the economies of the countries in which the ebrd operates in a period of capital shortages. my vote on the bowles report is therefore in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it is a 'technical' measure, the question of the ebrd is, in my view, a political one. i believe that the ebrd, like the eib, cannot finance a state which does not respect the territorial sovereignty of a member state of the european union, and which even threatens the eu itself. i am referring, of course, to the age-old question of relations between cyprus and turkey: the european union should send a strong signal to turkey by suspending all funding until the cyprus problem is resolved. we cannot and must not accept vetoes and ultimatums from ankara, as happened a few days ago with regard to the future cypriot presidency of the european union.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, at this historic moment, i am in favour of the proposal which has just been adopted for the increase in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development. the european union became a member of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) in the 1990s. over the years, the governors of the ebrd decided to double the capital and the union subscribed another 30000 shares, but the share of the total capital of the union remained unchanged. in may last year, to deal with the crisis, the council decided to increase the capital from 20 to 30 billion euros, which seemed like a good start to regain momentum and a strong response in a time of strong speculation. in addition, the ebrd's future activity will be crucial for the implementation of project bonds.
in writing. the aim of today's document is to enable the european union to subscribe to further actions of the european bank for reconstruction and development. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. in may, it was decided to increase the bank's capital from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion in order to respond to the financial crisis and to promote its support activities in the countries where it operates. today's decision has no immediate direct impact on the eu budget.
in writing. - madam president, considering that the european union is one of the world's leading arms producers and exporters, it is essential to create a unified system for the trade in firearms and their parts, components and ammunition. it is not simply a regulation designed to reduce the time taken to process applications for authorization, especially for civilian weapons, but the obvious need to draw up a traceability line, through export authorizations and import and transit measures, aimed at tackling the illegal trade in arms. i congratulate the rapporteur on the content of the text aimed at protecting the security of the union and the arms industry, and i hope that all those countries which have not yet signed or ratified the un firearms protocol will reflect on and adopt the measures contained in the protocol and decide to fight together against transnational organised crime and to strengthen cooperation between national authorities.
in writing. the report under discussion is of particular importance because it concerns the adoption of the regulation on the implementation of article 10 of the un protocol establishing a unified system for the trade in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition within the member states of the european union. i would remind you that europe has a long and well-established tradition in the field of shooting sports, in which more than 10 million citizens, in full compliance with the rules of the law, contribute to a large extent to the economic wealth of the community. the result we have achieved today, mainly thanks to the active participation of all those concerned in the consultation process and in particular of small and mediumsized enterprises, has required a long and patient process aimed at meeting the provisions of the un protocol and making them compatible with the current european situation in which 27 member states have very different internal legislation in this field. i therefore welcome the adoption of this new instrument, which in my view meets two fundamental requirements: the effective fight against illicit trafficking in firearms, through the promotion and strengthening of cooperation between states, and the harmonisation and simplification of procedures for actors in the sector, such as hunters and target shooters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of article 10 of the united nations protocol on firearms and the provision for export authorizations and import and transit measures for such weapons. in the light of the progressive growth of transnational organised crime within the eu territory, especially after the recent enlargements of the union to the eastern countries, it is of paramount importance to adopt measures that respond to the security needs of community citizens. the adoption of specific legislation on the circulation of firearms responds to this need. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
in writing. − in june 2005, the entry into force of article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in arms was the first binding instrument for portable firearms for civilian use to be adopted globally. the protocol has so far been ratified by 83 countries and signed by 52. however, countries such as the czech republic, france, hungary, ireland and malta have neither ratified nor signed the document. however, it is necessary that article 10 of the protocol be applied in all member states, both to harmonise and simplify procedures and to create a common system for the trade in firearms, thus effectively combating illegal trafficking. i voted in favour of the report by mr iacolino, which has the merit of balancing the various needs with balanced proposals. the application of article 10 has implications for public safety and industrial sustainability profiles. however, it is also necessary to take account of the sensitive socioeconomic effects of the sector, generating in europe alone a volume of almost eur 694 million in exports and over eur 220 million in imports, a significant source of gdp and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which i share both in spirit and in substance. i believe that by its approval the european parliament has shown great seriousness and commitment to a subject as challenging as the manufacture and trade of firearms. the adoption of common rules at european level aimed at more effective export controls is a great opportunity to strengthen european security, but it must not place an undue burden on companies which would reduce their competitiveness to the detriment of producers in third countries. it is important to ensure that these changes lead to an ever more united and internationally solid community of european citizens. this can only happen if, as the report stresses, the illicit manufacture and trafficking of arms is prevented. i am, however, pleased that the rapporteur, by making slight changes to the commission's text, has managed to strike the right balance between simplification and the protection of european consumers, without neglecting the importance of safety aspects.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr iacolino's report, which has the merit of dealing with a sensitive and controversial subject such as the implementation of article 10 of the united nations protocol on firearms and the provision of export authorizations and import and transit measures for firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. article 10 of the protocol must be adopted by all the member states in order to give a concrete and unanimous response to the illegal trafficking in arms, which is undoubtedly one of the main reasons for opposing this resolution. on the other hand, we must not risk, in the more than positive intention of fighting crime, hindering or making difficult the legal trade in arms. in this sense, mr iacolino's text reflects the needs of a commercial sector which is important for the economy of the individual member states and also for the european union. i believe that the fact that we have managed to combine both aspects of a thorny issue has been a remarkable achievement in the approach to the implementation of article 10 of the protocol.
in writing. the stockholm programme considers the trafficking of arms as one of the threats to the internal security of the european union. the general objective of harmonising and simplifying procedures is of course complemented by the objective of effectively combating the illicit trafficking in firearms by promoting and strengthening cooperation between states, an objective which has been made even more relevant with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009. we believe that export authorization should be granted only after import authorization by the third country and a notification of 'no objection' by the transit country, thus introducing an innovative procedure tacit consent in the event that the transit country does not raise objections within a certain time. we consider it essential that certain simplified procedures be provided for certain types of exports and certain categories of users. the member states will then have to commit themselves to providing appropriate powers to the competent authorities and to define the sanctions for infringements of this regulation. we also stress the importance of the application in all member states of article 10 of the un protocol to harmonize procedures and finally create a common system for the trade in firearms.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr iacolino's report. i agree with the rapporteur that attention should be paid to both the industrial sustainability and public safety profiles as laid down in the stockholm programme.
in writing. the main purpose of this report is to enable the implementation of article 10 of the un protocol, which is a measure against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their components and ammunition. this measure provides for greater regulation and harmonisation of the sector: on the one hand, it is right to crack down on the illegal international trade in firearms, which is a source of enormous profits for international crime and has dangerous consequences; but on the other hand we must try to facilitate those who use weapons for other purposes, such as sportsmen and hunters, and protect companies which produce weapons for civilian purposes. the report does indeed meet all these criteria, and that is why i wanted to express my positive opinion.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i can only support mr iacolino's proposal on the authorization of exports and imports of firearms. in may 2010, following the implementation of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, the eu's work on this issue intensified to the present proposal, which calls for effective eu control of the arms trade. the fact that 83 countries have ratified the protocol to date, including many eu member states, suggests that supporting such initiatives is the right way forward. the arms trade is a very sensitive sector which requires appropriate regulation, aimed above all at stopping illegal trafficking.
in writing. - i congratulate mr iacolino on his excellent work. the agreement on the export of firearms for civilian use is the european parliament's response to the norwegian tragedy. the tragic events in norway confirm the need to create a clear regulatory framework for exports and imports of arms for civilian use in the eu, which is a sector of industrial excellence in europe and which also involves many sportsmen and enthusiasts. the text contains very important elements such as the correspondence for each export to a third country of an equal import measure so that we can combat arms trafficking more effectively. the text also makes it possible to reconcile the need for simplified and streamlined procedures for operators in the sector, hunters and sport shooters, with the security profiles and controls imposed by exports of firearms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because its adoption by the ordinary legislative procedure would make it possible to establish finally a unified system for the trade in firearms, their parts and ammunition within the european union. in this way, by harmonizing and simplifying procedures, we will finally be able to combat the illegal trade in firearms more effectively, promoting and strengthening cooperation between states in this delicate trade area.
in writing. the arms sector is an industry in europe with a turnover of almost eur 694 million in exports and over eur 220 million in imports. i share the rapporteur's view on this because i believe that the adoption of the regulation would make it possible to apply article 10 of the un protocol in all member states, establishing a unified system for the trade in firearms, harmonising and simplifying procedures, to the benefit of european companies specialising in the field, and combating the illicit trafficking of arms. the right balance is also struck between security needs and bureaucratic simplification in favour of the companies.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the implementation of the un protocol on the trafficking of arms, which italy has already ratified. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the completeness of the text, which, in addition to promoting greater controls on the illicit trade in arms, provides for the simplification of the trade in arms in favour of certain categories such as hunters and sport shooters.
in writing. − the european union, through regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, granted exceptional duty-free access to the european market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. these measures provide for preferential access for the western balkan countries to the eu market with the main objective of giving a new impetus to their economies. in its november 2009 resolution, the european parliament called on the commission to make every effort to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis in the western balkans. at that meeting the european parliament expressed its support for measures to promote the economic development of these countries so that this in turn could lead to political stability. the end of trade preferences in december 2010 effectively deprived the beneficiaries of an objective economic advantage in trade with the eu. this could not only seriously undermine the economic recovery of the western balkans, and thus frustrate all efforts made so far, but could also have a negative impact on the internal reform and transition processes. therefore, i am more than in favour of extending the validity of the trade preferences regulation until december 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. on the one hand, the provisions contained in it may appear controversial, since they are intended to promote a preferential regime for goods from the balkan countries. given our opposition to the rapprochement and accession of these states to the eu, the establishment of a preferential regime for balkan goods might seem problematic. however, the document in question acknowledges the possible damage that such an entry might cause to the eu market and therefore proposes to adopt defensive countermeasures to prevent our market from being damaged in any way, even contemplating the partial suspension of the preferential regime in the event that actual problems arise. since the document takes account of the needs of our market by placing them on a priority channel, i have chosen to vote in favour.
in writing. − by regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, subsequently codified, with numerous amendments, by regulation (ec) no 1215/2009, the european union granted exceptional and unlimited duty-free access to the community market for almost all products from the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. in particular, the aim was to boost the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market, implementing economic development and fostering political stability in the whole area. the trade preferences granted expired on 31 december 2010 and since then the beneficiaries have been deprived of an objective economic advantage useful to support the difficult transition and internal reform process that the entire balkan area is undertaking. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i think it is appropriate to extend the granting of trade preferences until at least 2015. this can avoid any negative economic impact caused by the economic crisis that could undermine the reform processes undertaken in these countries.
in writing. - i am in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. it is absolutely essential, in this time of crisis, to support the economies of the developing countries. by granting the western balkan countries (temporary) privileged access to the eu market, the effects of the economic crisis in the region can be mitigated and thus the processes of political stabilisation can be promoted and accelerated. by amending regulation (ec) no 1215/2009, the granting of trade preferences for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from such an advantage is extended until 2015. i would like to emphasize that the balkans are a region of high priority in our foreign policy. the geographical proximity, the interdependence in terms of security, migration flows and trade are all factors which help to define the importance of south-east europe for us. it is also essential to understand that these countries will have a major impact on the political and economic stability of the eu itself in the future. it is therefore imperative that the economic development of the balkan regions be facilitated by this proposal, which will allow the extension of trade preferences to them, and thus bring political stability to the whole region.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, regulation (ec) no 2007/2000 provided for exceptional and limited duty-free access to the eu market for the vast majority of products from the countries which have benefited from the stabilisation and association processes, in particular the balkan countries. however, these extraordinary measures expired on 31 december 2010, thus depriving these countries of an important resource for their development and economic growth. i voted in favour of mr moreira's text because i believe it is necessary to extend the deadline to december 2015, so that the countries benefiting from these economic policies can resume their path of economic and, consequently, political growth. the suspension of these special economic measures would have deprived the balkan countries of an important opportunity for growth and institutional and political reforms, not only from a national perspective but, above all, for a broader and more productive european vision.
in writing. − with regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, the european union granted exceptional and unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the main aim of these measures is to give a new impetus to the economies of the western balkan countries, through privileged access to the eu market, believing that economic development will in turn promote political stability in the entire region. with the end of the trade preferences, the beneficiaries would be deprived of an objective economic advantage in trade with the eu. this could have serious consequences for the overall economic performance of the western balkans and have a negative impact on the internal reform and transition processes. moreover, the economic recovery of these countries could be seriously compromised. for this reason, we support the amendment of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 to allow for its extension until 31 december 2015 and for certain adjustments to be made following the entry into force of bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. − the european union must do everything possible to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis in the western balkans. it is not the time to end the trade preferences regime with the countries in that area. i agree with the exceptional measures listed in the moreira report. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i can only support the text voted on on the exceptional trade measures applicable to the countries and territories linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process. in fact, the opening up of a trading system where the eu has granted wide access giving many non-european countries the possibility of not having too many problems with tariffs and customs, giving a new impetus to their respective sector economies in a difficult economic period on the international scene, is only positive. such measures, thanks to the increase in cooperation relations outside europe, can only be a good springboard for the markets.
in writing. − the aim of these trade measures is to give a new impetus to the economies of the western balkan countries by allowing their goods to access preferential procedures within the eu. these privileges are intended to promote economic development and political stability in the entire balkan region and to give a commercial dimension to the stabilisation and association agreements with these countries. the measure, whose principles are acceptable, cannot guarantee with certainty that the authorities of the states concerned will carry out the necessary checks on goods in order to combat counterfeiting and protect our companies, which are often the victims of unfair competition. the rapporteur has put forward, with the necessary amendments, defensive measures to mitigate the possible negative impacts. i am therefore in favour of the report.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to vote in favour of renewing trade preferences with the balkan countries (including serbia) which have a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. firstly, because the commission is in favour of simplifying trade agreements with third countries, such as china, which do not have association agreements with the european union and whose products often undermine their competitiveness. secondly, the text on which final agreement has been reached offers the possibility of limiting the damage that this access to goods could cause to our market.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the next european council together with my colleagues from the epp, alde and s&d, because i believe that a clear and strong call from parliament is necessary for a common response to the crisis affecting europe. the initiative is intended to urge the president of the european commission to propose a comprehensive crisis plan with a roadmap clearly defining the different stages of its implementation. internal organization is essential to restore confidence in markets and citizens, to combat speculation and to save the banking system.
in writing. - madam president, on 22 september the european council of ministers of justice and home affairs postponed the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area. the netherlands and finland's veto appears to be based on the persistence of a high rate of corruption and the spread of organised crime in both countries under consideration and, therefore, that their accession to the schengen area is still premature. that said, there seems to be little confidence in the ability of these two countries to protect their external borders, especially when one considers that they are important routes for illegal arms and drug trafficking, and that romanian and bulgarian women are victims of human trafficking and sexual slavery to a greater extent than other european women. in view of this, can the commission give more information on this matter?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling on the european council to take the necessary measures to enable both countries to join the area without frontiers. it should be noted that romania and bulgaria have made progress in the integrated border management and in the strengthening of their legal and institutional framework. i believe that these decisions should be taken on the basis of the schengen acquis and procedures, using the criteria laid down in such cases. other issues should be addressed in due course and not used by member states as a tool of veto or retaliation or worse, to justify themselves to domestic public opinion.
in writing. − we consider the free movement of persons to be a fundamental right to be guaranteed to all citizens of the european union, as expressly provided for in the treaties. the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis into the eu framework is one of the major achievements of the european integration process and in this regard we consider that romania and bulgaria have fulfilled all the criteria for a successful conclusion of the evaluation process, as confirmed by parliament in its resolution of 8 june 2011 and by the council in its conclusions of 9 june 2011. the two countries have substantially redesigned and reorganised their integrated border management systems, invested heavily in law enforcement, in particular in training and the latest technologies, and have visibly strengthened their institutional and legal framework. we therefore urge all member states to take the decision to extend the schengen area to include bulgaria and romania on the basis of the schengen acquis and procedures alone. we believe that additional criteria cannot be imposed on member states which have already started the process of accession to the schengen area.
in writing. - the vote in favour of the resolution is also a way of saying no to the populist and nationalist sentiments that are taking hold in some countries. the community spirit must also prevail in decisions such as this, and this is one of the union's top priorities today.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that romania and bulgaria still do not meet certain basic requirements. this is not just my opinion, but other countries such as finland and the netherlands have vetoed the entry of these two countries into the schengen area. there is no adequate guarantee in the fight against crime and corruption and there are still serious doubts about the ability of these two member states to enforce the external borders: we cannot accept concessions in this area, because there is a risk of an even more massive invasion of non-community citizens through the external borders of romania and bulgaria. the first thing to do is to resolve these problems and, if necessary, but only afterwards, to consider their possible accession to schengen.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the enlargement of the union's schengen area, which was discussed in parliament at the last plenary session, with the accession of romania and bulgaria, is a necessary step on the part of europe, especially after these two countries have passed the technical tests necessary to be able to open internal borders by demonstrating the correct functioning of their organizational and regulatory systems. if compliance with the schengen parameters is the main requirement, unfortunately this does not seem to be enough for the netherlands and finland, whose attitude is seriously slowing down the work that the two countries have so far carried out with great commitment. i also hope that this resolution, after the french and german countries have been given a free hand and the capacity of their border surveillance system has been further checked, will enable a final agreement to be reached soon on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area.
in writing. - romania and bulgaria have only been members of the european union since 2007, so i think it is premature to apply the schengen agreement, which involves the abolition of internal border controls with both countries. i would point out the perplexities of france and germany, which do not believe that the two countries are capable of dealing with the phenomena of corruption and of combating organized crime. given the situation of the movement of criminal groups from romania to other european countries, we cannot risk italy in the first place. the netherlands also considers that bulgaria and romania have weak judicial and anti-corruption systems, and finland also considers that this proposal is not sustainable.
in writing. - following the dutch and finnish 'no' vote and the failure of the justice and home affairs council on 22 september, bulgaria and romania will not be allowed to remove internal border controls. i believe that by doing so, at a time when the eu's credibility is not well regarded, europe is demonstrating its inconsistency: the criteria for these two countries to join schengen were set and met last april. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of persons. i would like to express my support for bulgaria and romania, in the knowledge that by defending their cause we can also help to preserve the integrity of the schengen building and the credibility of the eu. the risk of failure is the risk of failure and even greater than the fear that corruption will destroy the system of free borders. the issue is becoming a flashpoint in relations between eastern european member states - many of which have external borders with the eu - and the rest of europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the envi committee in particular. it is essential that the european union has a disability strategy in order to foster the creation of a sustainable, competitive and innovative society, developing smart and inclusive growth. the commitment of the european union and individual national states will be to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to implement the strategy as a whole, guaranteeing freedom of communication for all, recognising braille and sign language as official, guaranteeing freedom of movement, removing architectural barriers, integrating dedicated transport services into public transport systems and establishing a unified passenger charter. in health care, it is important to eliminate disparities and to provide everyone with a minimum level of care and adequate rehabilitation services that leverage the desire for autonomy. effective support for young people is needed, enabling them to participate in social and civic life, lifelong learning and the world of work through the use of specific reserve quotas and targeted placement instruments. finally, disabled citizens will also be seen as a resource and not a burden.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ádám kósa, for his tireless work. this report begins by citing some 40 official reference documents, including un conventions, european parliament and commission communications, resolutions, green papers and various acts, which gives us an idea of the amount of legislative, regulatory, policy and recommendation work that has been carried out in the field of disability over the years. the report also sets out a long list of objectives to promote the integration of our disabled fellow citizens. i remember two of these objectives in particular. the first: the participation of disabled people in decision-making, under the motto "nothing about us without us". the second objective is to consider the subject under discussion as a human and civil rights issue, that is to say, a matter which does not concern a category of citizens but which affects the very identity of the european union. however, mr president, the reality of the european context is very different, because we are unfortunately witnessing an increasing suffering and pain of disability in our countries. we are seeing structural funds that would be available but which are not being used by member states or local authorities. we are seeing violations by these same member states or local authorities which are not being sanctioned as they should be by the commission. we are witnessing good practices in some countries which are unfortunately ignored and not exported and exploited elsewhere and we are witnessing treatment which differs from country to country or region to region within the same country, which unfortunately considerably limits the very freedom of movement of our disabled fellow citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mr kósa on his excellent work. i'm deeply convinced that we've all done a good job, but i'm equally deeply convinced that we really need to change the kind of approach. in fact, it is true that much has been written, that there are many regulations and legislation at national and supranational level, agreements and treaties, but not enough has been done for a very large disadvantaged group: we have heard this figure many times, 80 million europeans - we are talking about 16% of european citizens - with disabilities. these people must be assured and guaranteed equal opportunities in everything. we also have to keep in mind that with the demographic changes we're always talking about, we risk seeing that number double by 2050. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. we have technologies today that allow us, really, to provide these people with the means and tools to be full citizens. i think, for example - and i am ashamed as an italian - of the battle we have fought, with little success, to have one very simple thing in italy: the subtitling of television programmes. think, for example, that when there is an election campaign, which is now done entirely through the media, that hearing-impaired people have difficulty in exercising, in science and in conscience, their basic right of democratic life, which is to vote.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report, which is intended to provide an opportunity for an evaluation and analysis of european public procurement policy. the report calls for the criteria of transparency, clarity, sustainability and accessibility to be respected and for the path of simplification and improvement of legal certainty to be followed. in order to protect smes and local authorities, i agree with the request to consider raising the value of the thresholds currently provided for in so-called european contracts. the commission is also calling for fairer conditions, simplified access and minimum administrative requirements. it is important to encourage tenders that stimulate innovation and strengthen subcontracting rules, so that health and safety standards are always maintained at a high level, while protecting local administrations. all this can lead to an important result in terms of development and the fight against corruption, as well as to a better use of public funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs rühle for her work, the commission and its president, but above all commissioner barnier for his support of this work and, in particular, for the commitments he has made in this house this evening. it was pointed out that this sector represents the european gdp and is therefore important for our economy, but also for our growth and employment. the keywords are important, and what i like to emphasize is that they're shared. the simplification of documentation, procedures, digitisation and standardisation is something that all colleagues agreed on. the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises in the economic fabric of our continent was also emphasized: the theme of simplification is useful for large enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and small enterprises: it's good for everybody. for small firms, on the other hand, the possibility of extending access to the tender by identifying smaller lots is certainly useful in combating many distortions, particularly those which have been mentioned here in several speeches, namely the subject of subcontracting. i thank the commissioner for having planned an ambitious set of reforms, innovating and introducing - i hope - new methods also in the area of procurement, tackling the issue of concessions and also that of projects, setting as an objective the quality of the results to be achieved and the paths to be followed, including that of respect for the labour market rule.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin by apologising to my colleague, antonio tajani, who, as you know, wished to follow these questions with great attention and dedication. he's being held up tonight by a g20 preparatory meeting. he asked me to explain and listen to you on a subject on which i myself have been engaged as commissioner for the internal market, as you can well imagine. i would also like to begin by thanking mrs tzavela and mr theurer for having just taken the initiative of questioning the commission on the small business act. i would like to remind you, in continuation of the debate we have just had on public procurement, that the 21 million small and mediumsized enterprises represent 99% of european enterprises and account for almost 90% of new job creation. these small and mediumsized enterprises make up 99% of the european economic fabric and are therefore the key to the growth we want to rebuild or consolidate, as well as to our dynamism and competitiveness. but these companies - you have both mentioned this - are having considerable difficulties, particularly at the moment, and they are faced, because they are small and mediumsized, with too many obstacles which remain in the exercise of export mobility and trade within the single market. that is precisely why, with my colleagues, and in particular mr tajani, we have proposed legislation through the single market act to facilitate those who want to innovate, export, be mobile, trade, and this is naturally the case for small and mediumsized enterprises. there are of course many other difficulties which i can mention briefly: the administrative burden, the lack of liquidity, the difficulty of accessing finance - madam, you mentioned it - the lack of visibility in the market for potential investors. these are all factors which are holding back the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. according to an impact study on smes and the labour market, the crisis has cost nearly three million jobs to small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. that's why we have to act. this is not a new question. it was developed in 2008 when a cross-cutting, tailor-made approach for small and medium-sized enterprises resulted in the adoption of the small business act. the small business act has made significant progress. i would mention a few: the time and costs of starting a business have been reduced and we have adopted important legislation, such as the directive on combating late payment or the directive on reduced rates of value added tax. in addition, the sme test, mr theurer, which you yourself mentioned, has brought some positive elements. it has been in place since 2009 and has become a regular application for proposals with an impact on businesses, as was acknowledged in a recent study by the european parliament. such tests were carried out for the report on the late payment directive and the 'standardisation package'. but, mr theurer, i think we need to go further, as you yourself have asked, and, on the initiative of mr tajani, the commission will organise a workshop in each member state to implement these sme tests as generally as possible. when the small business act was reviewed last february, the commission committed itself to strengthening this test and president barroso, at the european council last june, gave some indications of the direction in which we are working, in particular with a view to strengthening the dimension for micro entities in the sme test. greater visibility of this test is also something we want to ensure. this tool, ladies and gentlemen, the small business act, is very useful to us in keeping our action in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises consistent, and it needs to be completed on a number of projects which i would like to mention briefly. the first priority is the programme for the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has proposed a budget of €2.7 billion to support smes and we hope to have the support of parliament in this respect in the next budgetary perspective. in the context of this debate on the future financial perspective, we also proposed doubling the budget allocated to support smes. we will also ensure that these funds are allocated as a priority to smes in the initial phase of their growth, which is often the most sensitive and fragile phase for them. these funds will be useful to us, but we are also working on tools to address the difficulties in accessing finance at source, with actions in three areas: venture capital, stock markets and bank credit. these are subjects which i, as you know, deal with more personally in my responsibilities for the internal market and financial services. we have proposed, in the single market act, and we will be presenting in the coming weeks, legislation to encourage the mobility of venture capital funds in europe. i will therefore be looking very carefully at the idea of setting up a european venture capital fund with my colleagues and, in particular, with mr tajani. we are also working with my services on ways of reducing the threshold effects which prevent a very large number of smes from being able to enter the stock exchange, and on ways of improving the currently too low liquidity of these markets. mrs tzavela, you also mentioned access to bank credit. we know that one of the consequences of the crisis is the restriction of bank lending, and we have an extremely demanding dialogue with the banks. i am also very attentive, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the legislation we are preparing and presenting, as i did on 20 july on the implementation of the basle rules on non-prudential funds for capitalisation and liquidity, will make a specific place for small establishments which are often, on the ground, in the regions, in your own country, banking establishments: there are 8 300 banks in europe, which are the ones financing the real economy, as we know. another focus will be on small and medium-sized enterprises and their innovative role in the future framework programme to support research and innovation, up to 2020. also within the 7th research programme, and particularly for the financial risk-sharing mechanism, we will launch, in early 2012, a new action to facilitate access to bank loans for smes engaged in research and innovation activities. the new facility will have a budget of eur 120 million. we will also continue our work to encourage the participation of smes in european funding programmes, and i am thinking in particular of the structural funds. my colleague johannes hahn is particularly concerned that smes should have greater access to it - i am dealing with this in the context of public procurement - but it is also necessary to facilitate access for smes through the structural funds regulations. another major priority is the reduction of the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises. we have an action programme to reduce the burden that will end in 2012. we are on track to meet the 25% reduction target we have committed to. i think we could even go beyond that, if the proposal we have made to exempt micro-enterprises from accounting rules were adopted quickly. overall, we have already put forward more than 200 proposals to simplify existing legislation and reduce administrative burdens by more than 31%. the proposals adopted so far represent a reduction of about 22% in the administrative burden for businesses, and we will continue to do so. third priority: the commission intends to present a new, more coherent strategy to facilitate access to public procurement for small and mediumsized enterprises. we've been over this a long time, i'm not going to go over it again. but this is a clear priority of the commission, and at any rate of mine, as i said earlier, in terms of simplifying public procurement and public procurement in general. i would also like us to facilitate this reciprocity for access to international markets, and this is the subject of the transposition of the multiannual agreement on public procurement (gpa) into community law, which i will propose to you with mr de gucht. to open up markets to smes that need to be within their reach, we have also proposed extending the european standardisation system to services, while further opening up the framework for standard-setting to smes. more concretely, we hope that eventually a culture of partnership between all the actors will be established and that problems on the ground will be solved. we have no right to legislate on theoretical or ideological grounds. we must make legislation very practical for smes. ladies and gentlemen, i say in particular to the two members who have asked these two very useful questions: if you read the single market act and the 12 key proposals that we have identified with about ten of my colleagues and the 50 proposals that we are implementing, you will see that all these laws are proactive and facilitative laws to make the work of smes easier. this is also true of subjects which i have not had time to mention, such as the european patent, which parliament supports and which is currently, because of its price, often inaccessible to small and mediumsized enterprises. my colleague has recently appointed a commission representative, mr calleja crespo, to monitor the implementation of measures at european level with the member states on all questions relating to smes. it is relayed at national level by the ambassadors for small and medium-sized enterprises. the first meeting of this network was held in brussels on 14 september and was mainly devoted to the subject you mentioned, madam president, of access to credit. ladies and gentlemen, close cooperation between all the european and national institutions is essential to implement effectively this small business act and, more generally, the single market act and all these initiatives, and to enable european small and mediumsized enterprises to cope with this crisis. it is absolutely essential that small and mediumsized enterprises play their part in overcoming this crisis and in winning the battle for growth, employment and competitiveness, and for this we must help them in every way possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in europe is entwined in a vicious circle the problems of public budgets and private capital with those of the productivity of our enterprises, and the spectre of recession is there. if the priority given to smes is therefore crucial, i ask the commission to ensure that our good principles are put into practice and that the legislative initiatives of the sba (small business act) become practical in the member states with a high level of effectiveness and quality. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of credit card fraud. so smes are important, but we're still at the method level. of course, it is right to check whether when we legislate we are really doing so in the interests and the scale of small and mediumsized enterprises: but we ask that you proceed, with great persistence and tenacity, in depth, in creating this framework of opportunity that you have outlined. we also appreciate what the commission is doing and we are ready with the budget and other means at our disposal to support it. i'll just say a word about credit. let us make a clear statement to the banks i say this to you commissioner because we must help smes... (the president withdrew the floor).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to the area i know best, northern italy. the most important problem for our small and mediumsized enterprises at the moment is access to credit: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the banks are forced to recapitalise, to pay off the debts caused by their financial speculations and no longer lend to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are too small to have their own funds or provide guarantees. they are therefore unable to contribute to the country's economic recovery, regardless of their goodwill. it is therefore essential to extend credit facilities in various forms to smes and to improve information on the availability of the financial instruments available, in particular the structural funds. without money there is no research, no renewal of machinery, no possibility of investment and therefore it is impossible to contribute to the welfare of the country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the weight and importance of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european economy is universally known and it is therefore right that they should be at the centre of the union's action. access to credit is often cited as one of the major problems for smes, and we have spoken extensively about this today. however, with the entry into force of the basel iii regulations, this could prove even more difficult and costly. basel iii, although well-intentioned, does impose higher capital requirements on banks, and this necessarily implies a tightening of credit provision and an increase in financing costs, which is likely to hit smes particularly hard. given that loans to smes are the least risky, could specific measures be taken to solve this problem? and most importantly: to be competitive, you have to innovate, but can you innovate without resources?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in these last two years, which have been so difficult for the european economy, our small and mediumsized enterprises, despite having felt the crisis, particularly in terms of employment, have coped very well and continue to be the backbone of the european economy. of the various data i've been able to read, one of them seems interesting to me: smes living and working in member states that are innovation leaders are recovering much faster than those living in countries considered to be modest innovators. this means that the path it has chosen to take europe through strategy 2020, together with the role it wants to give to innovation, is the right one. but we need to make sure that it delivers tangible results in much shorter time than was expected before 2009. we must also ensure that the member states respect their commitments, apply the directives and make life easier for our smes. the commissioner's speech, which highlighted important figures that we know are linked to the reality of smes in the european union, was interesting to me: the idea of giving micro-enterprises a breathing space. they'll be a revelation to everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, if we could hear the voice of a small businessman in this house today, we would hear a story even more disturbing than the data we have been given, especially as regards the four structural problems facing this sector, which is a crucial sector that is part of europe's identity, namely: we have heard about the obstacles to simply paying vat in the various countries, innovation and access to the structural funds, which some of our countries do not use as they should, and access to credit. it is unacceptable, mr commissioner, that europe should recapitalize banks without imposing strict conditions on them to facilitate access to credit for a crucial sector of the european economy, such as small and mediumsized enterprises, which are not rewarded but blackmailed, if not strangled, by credit institutions.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99% of all european enterprises and employ more than 90 million people. these are the data from which to start a constructive discussion, especially in the light of the recent economic crisis, which has led to the loss of some 3.25 million jobs in the sector. it is also true that the structural weaknesses of our enterprises are deep-rooted: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. just to quote a fact: the average cost of opening a business in the us is only 694 euros, while the average in europe is 2,285, with a licensing time of 2 to 3 months. simplification is needed! on a daily basis, european companies have to deal with too much red tape and administrative burdens, and this does not help them in their daily challenges with china and other emerging economies. that is why i hope that, for a more competitive europe, more favourable conditions for entrepreneurship will be created, which will promote the growth of smes by helping them to overcome the problems that hinder their development and encourage an innovative and entrepreneurial mind-set among young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days i have heard from many quarters that china is the possible saviour of the euro and of europe itself. reactions ranged from fatalistic to enthusiastic. however, i do want to ask you a simple question: why should china help europe? this aid would certainly not be an end in itself but it could be the last and final death blow from the asian country to the west. i am surprised and sorry, because this chinese strategy is well planned and planned out, while europe seems to me to have no idea or line of action. i'm from prato, the city with the highest concentration of chinese in italy. maybe they came to us to help, but now they control most of the city and the economy and society of prato have been slowly and deliberately destroyed.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by traian ungureanu, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on promoting the mobility of workers within the european union (2010/2273 ((ini)) (a7-0258/2011).
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr traian ungureanu, for his report on promoting worker mobility within the european union. the commission shares this house’s opinion of the positive impact of geographical mobility on europe’s economies. over the last 40-plus years, geographical mobility and the fundamental principle of freedom of movement for workers have contributed to european integration and the building of the single market. in addition, geographical mobility contributes to both employment and economic growth. this is particularly relevant at a time when high levels of unemployment coexist with labour shortages across sectors and regions. citizens must be encouraged and better informed if they are to undertake a cross-border career move with confidence. it calls, inter alia, for better knowledge of the job market situation. people need to know where the jobs are. anticipating and matching labour market and skills needs are a top priority for the eu. that priority has been followed up by practical action and the development of new tools like the job vacancy monitor for example. these tools will also be helpful for the eures network of european employment services. eures provides high-quality information, advice and recruitment services for workers and employers. it is a powerful resource available to the eu for promoting geographical mobility. eures will be reformed next year to step up its matching and placement capacity and to develop mobility and employment in europe, as the commission announced in its communication ‘an agenda for new skills and jobs’. the commission will support targeted mobility schemes at eu level through eures. one such scheme is your first eures job. a preparatory version is currently under trial. despite the eu’s very extensive legislation in the area of free movement of workers, more effective channels of communication between mobile workers and state services are needed to give workers full access to information on their rights and obligations. to that end, i can inform you that, in response to your report, the commission is assessing the advisability of adding an enforcement dimension to existing eu rules on equal treatment of mobile workers and what the best options for that would be. the commission has also given fresh impetus to member state enforcement of the directive on freedom of movement for citizens (directive 2004/38/ec) in response to concerns voiced on the topic. this rigorous policy of enforcement has produced substantial results: the majority of the member states have amended their legislation – or announced their intention of amending it according to a clear calendar – to ensure full transposition of the free movement directive. the commission is also committed to continuous monitoring of the accession treaties’ provisions with respect to the member states which have opted temporarily to restrict free movement of workers. in response to a request from bulgaria and romania on 20 june under the 2005 act of accession, before the end of this year the commission will present a new report on the way in which the transitional arrangements on the free movement of workers from those countries have functioned. the report will analyse the post-enlargement migration flows, the main characteristics of the intra-eu mobile persons, and the economic and labour market impact. while any decisions to maintain restrictions on bulgarian and romanian workers in the third phase, from 1 january 2012, lie with the member states, they will have to be notified to the commission by the end of the year and be justified by serious labour market disturbances. the commission welcomes this own-initiative report and agrees with the house that reaffirming a fundamental treaty principle and promoting geographical mobility is vital. mobility is among the best ways of reducing skill mismatches and boosting our economies, particularly in the current context of high unemployment and very uneven economic growth. it therefore represents a key element of the europe 2020 strategy to which all member states have signed up.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 october 2011 at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by małgorzata handzlik, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the peer review process provided for in the services directive (2011/2085 (ini)) (a7-0324/2011).
member of the commission. − madam president, the report on the mutual evaluation process of the services directive provides new evidence of the main role played by the european parliament on this important issue, a central role both during the negotiation of the directive and the transposition period. this report is, for me, an essential contribution to the full implementation and the good quality of the services directive in all member states. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms małgorzata handzlik, for the relevance of her analysis and the strong messages delivered by this report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, especially ms evelyne gebhardt, who did impressive work in her report on the implementation of the services directive adopted in february, and of course throughout negotiations on the directive, as well as the chair, mr harbour. your report highlights the importance of fully implementing and operating all aspects of the services directive, whether they are legal or practical aspects. i welcome this. we do not only need an adaptation of the national legislation, we must also ensure that the one-stop shops are fully operational. the report points it out clearly. the report also introduces a strong signal with respect to the next steps in developing the internal market for services. the services directive has already brought a tangible success, but the internal market for services is not complete. there is still untapped potential. that is why we must move forward and your report contributes to this goal. i welcome your support for the actions proposed by the commission in its communication of january 2011 on the results of the mutual evaluation process. the results show that we must take more into account the needs and practical problems of users of the internal market, our citizens and our businesses. which tools should we use to achieve this goal? together with the member states the commission has launched a review of the consistency of eu rules on the ground. the community instruments often operate simultaneously and their implementation may lead to practical difficulties. thus an architect based in belgium who works for clients in the netherlands may be subject, depending on the situation, to the services directive, the directive on professional qualifications, the directive on electronic commerce and many other instruments. in cooperation with national administrators, we are currently conducting a performance test or consistency test on these rules. these tests are performed on the basis of case studies in three key sectors: construction, tourism and business services. i am determined to keep parliament and notably the committee on the internal market and consumer protection closely informed of progress in the coming months. on the basis of the outcome of the benchmark, the commission will propose concrete actions in 2012 in order to ensure a better functioning of the internal market. in addition, we will look closely at the specific barriers identified during the peer review. thus the requirements limiting the choice of legal form or requirements relating to the ownership of capital can be an impediment to the growth of service activities, domestically and cross-border. such restrictions often apply in sectors with high added value, which are an important source of growth and skilled jobs – lawyers, engineers, tax advisers, architects and so on and so forth. they can prevent the development of innovative business models without even being necessary for the protection of consumers or workers. the commission will assess the impact on the ground of these requirements and decide by 2012, if possible, whether specific initiatives should be launched. we will also carry out a study of the economic effects of the implementation of the services directive based on the result of the work achieved by the member states. your report shows the importance that parliament attaches to the achievements of such a study. i would like to present the results of the study to you personally early in 2012. finally, concerning the mutual evaluation of the working method, we know that it is an essential tool in the context of the services directive; the scope is very broad and involves profound changes in national legislation. this is without any doubt a tool of the future, but i agree with you that a case-by-case analysis is required before applying this methodology to other legislative tools. we must be pragmatic. i count on the continuous support of parliament to maintain the dynamics created by the implementation of the services directive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 october 2011 at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by diana wallis, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on alternative methods of dispute settlement in civil, commercial and family matters (a7-0343/2011).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate the fact that in mrs wallis' report on alternative dispute settlement methods she calls for a general agenda for justice for growth across all sectors, going beyond consumer-producer disputes to include civil transactions and in particular family disputes. i believe that family mediation and a strong european position in this field are of great importance, given the growing number of conflicts in the european union, usually as a result of separation and divorce, and the corresponding increase in disputes between spouses, often of different nationalities, which then have a heavy impact on children. experience in many countries shows that the institution of the family mediator, as a neutral person to whom one can freely turn, helps partners to find mutually acceptable agreements in written agreements to be submitted to the court for approval. this objective must therefore be pursued with determination within the community, while respecting subsidiarity, also in the light of the 2005 european union regulation on parental responsibility, also to strengthen cross-border protection, with particular reference to child abduction and the role of the european parliament's mediator. i therefore hope that the commission will also take this into account in its legislative proposal in its address to the member states.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission welcomes the support on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumers and businesses and we also welcome your suggestions concerning the commission’s legislative proposal on adr for consumer disputes. the krakow declaration, which the single market forum adopted earlier this month, repeated this call. adr is also one of the 12 proposals in the single market act. my colleague commissioner dalli will be putting forward two legislative proposals which are scheduled for adoption by the commission on 23 november: one for a framework directive on adr for business-to-consumer (b2c) disputes; and one for a regulation on online dispute resolution. the directive will ensure that consumers and traders can access adr schemes for any dispute between them, and the regulation will establish an eu platform for disputes related to cross-border online transactions between consumers and traders. these proposals will be the first bricks for the construction of an effective out-of-court redress system. the commission is also aware, as your report states, that we have to deal with business-to-business (b2b) dispute resolution, particularly for smes. during the commission consultation on b2c disputes, stakeholders were very clear: they expressed a preference for a different type of instrument to apply to b2b disputes, catering for them more specifically. therefore the commission is at present examining different types of adr, including arbitration work, in particular in the cross-border context of b2b disputes. we are at a very early stage of information gathering and we will examine all possible problems which could hinder businesses, in particular smes. however, we would welcome all proposals on this while we are working on it. if the outcome of the work is positive, as i believe it will be, i will ultimately come forward with a proposal. concerning the mediation directive, it is a viable option of ‘first resort’, particularly – as has been mentioned – in family law cases where the parties cannot settle their conflict themselves and going to court may unnecessarily escalate their dispute. mediation may lead to fast and cheap results. the mediation directive has applied everywhere except in denmark since 21 may 2011. this directive can be applied to civil and commercial matters, including family matters and disputes between businesses and consumers. the only exclusion is where parties are not free to decide on their rights and obligations under the applicable law. the commission welcomes parliament’s support for the key provisions in the mediation directive, which should also apply to other adr schemes. independence, impartiality, confidentiality, the effects on prescription and the enforceability of agreements are to be regarded as common standards for all kinds of adr. specifically concerning the mediation directive, following the opening of pre-infringement proceedings in july 2011 against nine member states which were late in transposing the directive, today 20 member states have notified the commission of national measures for implementing it. i am continuing to follow carefully the situation in the other member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 october 2011 at 12.30 p.m.
the agenda includes the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on global economic governance (2011/2011 (ini)) (a7-0323/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to underline that the european leaders are going to make strong proposals this week in order to get europe out of the crisis. having said that, mr hökmark is right to underline the importance of global economic governance, which is a very important contribution to all the governance problems on the different continents. as a commission, we share many of mr hökmark’s recommendations. i would also like to thank the members of parliament who have taken part in the discussion and made contributions to this topic. the current crisis was a real watershed in global economic governance. before 2008 nobody could have imagined the large advances made in bringing economies together or the g7 coordinating a policy response to a recession or an economic slowdown. this is no longer the case. the g20 has taken its place and has become a prime forum for international economic cooperation. however, more is needed to counter the current slowdown and this will be discussed in cannes shortly. more is also needed to strengthen global governance and, as stressed in the report, the eu should play a leading role in this economic governance reform. we can only do that if we also lead by example and that is what our heads of state and government are going to do this week. president barroso said in his speech on the state of the union in this house that it is also time to have unified external representations of the euro area with the strengthening of the internal governance. i am thinking here of the ‘six pack’. we now need to move towards a more unified external representation of the euro area in international financial institutions like the imf, and the commission will soon make proposals in this regard.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 october 2011 at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by barbara matera, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of single mothers (2011/2049(ini)) (a7-0317/2011).
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and all the other rapporteurs who have contributed to the content of the report with new ideas to support this vulnerable group of women who, not by choice, are left to face the growth of their children and the need to pursue their own careers. this category of women at high risk of poverty needs the support of the european institutions through concrete forms of support. i am honoured to have been entrusted with the responsibility of drawing up this report on the situation of single mothers in europe: this is the first own-initiative report by the european parliament to identify measures to support single-parent families. i organized a public hearing in the european parliament several months ago to invite experts from associations working in support of single mothers and to have a first exchange of views on the priority areas in which to act and support this category. in the last few months i have met with associations which have supported single mothers in several member states such as ireland, portugal, the united kingdom and belgium, and in brussels i had the opportunity to visit personally an association where single mothers live and during this visit i had the opportunity to exchange information and ideas with the head of the structure and to understand more closely the difficulties these women face on a daily basis. in addition, during my visit to warsaw with the femm delegation, i was able to learn more about the benefits and measures to support single mothers in poland. single mothers are an underrepresented demographic: geographically across europe there are different perceptions and policies towards single mothers. in the southern mediterranean countries, such as italy, portugal, spain and greece, it is generally accepted that the extended family will contribute to the upbringing of single-parent children on a voluntary and unpaid basis. in the north and in northern states such as france, sweden, germany, denmark, government welfare systems are in place to help single mothers with benefits and social assistance policies. in the member states of eastern europe, on the other hand, there is a mixture of policies, some linked to strong family values of the communist regimes, others characterized by a mixture of policies from the north and south of europe. at present, 5% of the female population in europe are single mothers. in some member states, such as estonia and latvia, this figure is as high as 9%. single mothers are often stigmatized as young and irresponsible, when in fact 85 percent of them are between the ages of 25 and 64. in addition, the negative effects of the financial and economic crisis that hit the european union have had a severe impact on this category of women. already burdened by the gender pay gap, these mothers are hampered by the need to take on debt and have to care for their children. the health status of single mothers is statistically more unstable than that of married women. these mothers are under more stress because they have to perform tasks that normally fall to both parents. often they cannot afford proper medical care and do not have time for rest. statistically, single mothers across europe are less educated than their married counterparts, and so their entry into the world of work is also difficult and hindered. the report is full of new initiatives and, above all, new objectives which the european union must set itself, because this is a subject which must be at the centre of the union's priorities, certainly considering that the number of these women is growing throughout europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for her complex, interesting and rich report. we know that in europe, as has been said, more than 5% of the female population are now single mothers, and i also remember that 85% of single parents are women. so there is a focus on the female side of the single parent situation which is now increasingly being taken up by welfare, employment and social security policies. of course, this is a population which, as the report says, is very diverse in age, legal status and economic status. for example, in northern europe, young single mothers with very high scores predominate, especially in some scandinavian countries and the united kingdom, while in the south, single mothers with children predominate after separation, divorce or widowhood. the conditions are therefore also very different and, while in northern europe some services and welfare systems are probably more advanced, partly because family networks are smaller, in the south we are faced with a new phenomenon that is emerging, including single mothers and young people, with a welfare system that has not yet been sufficiently targeted and thought out. so there are different response rates. i therefore believe that the first thing to be done is - as the report also states - to compare welfare systems and best practices, to see what kind of mix of services for employability, training and welfare can be created which prevents poverty and exclusion from the labour market and which allows a much more complex reconciliation for this type of women.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank ms matera for her very useful and timely contribution, because the topic she has chosen is of the utmost importance. we must be aware that the structure of households in europe is constantly changing, and that single parents (some are fathers, but the vast majority are mothers) now account for a growing percentage of households with children, and their numbers are on the rise. recent oecd analyses indicate remarkable similarities in all the member states. by 2030 there will be between 22% and 29% more single parents than there are now, so what we are currently seeing is only the beginning of a very large-scale trend. this, of course, calls for action. the first action is in our europe 2020 strategy. we aim to reduce the number of people living at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 20 million. this is exactly the number of children at risk of poverty in the european union today, and the figure rises to over 30% for children living with single parents. this is why we want to make a recommendation to the european platform against poverty and social exclusion on combating child poverty in 2012. it will propose principles and indicators in key areas such as support for families and access to essential services including child care, housing and education. affordable childcare is very important for single mothers and single fathers, who have to be able to enter the labour market if they do not want to be trapped by poverty and social exclusion. we also need to know more about the phenomenon, which is why we are collecting data to identify trends and compare welfare provisions. such data are already partly available in the oecd family database (which is co-financed by the european commission), and the new family support calculator is a tool that allows users to compare the income situation of various types of families. the european alliance for families is a very important eu platform for sharing good practice on family policies and fostering cooperation and mutual learning in this field. there is also our european institute for gender equality, which analyses the data and develops methods and tools for gender mainstreaming and also facilitates mutual learning and the exchange of best practice. ms matera, you said that it is the first time that we have spoken in plenary on this subject; i am very sure it is not the last.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 25 october 2011, at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by sonia alfano, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on organised crime in the european union (2010/2309 (ini)) (a7-0333/2011)
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the work done with the political groups, in particular with the shadow rapporteurs, mr iacolino for the ppe, mr crocetta for the s&d, mr albrecht for the greens, mr kirkhope for the ecr and mr de jong for the gue, who have made a decisive contribution to reaching an advanced and ambitious final text. organised crime and the mafia are one of the main threats to the security and freedoms of eu citizens. for the first time in european political history, an official document explicitly refers to the mafia and the need for specific, transnational forms of opposition. it is essential to focus on organised crime and the mafia because, as the europol reports show, we are witnessing organised criminal metastases, which are taking root in the member states and have heavily infiltrated the economy, finance, politics and public administrations. the european parliament, in this report, proposes a concrete policy of opposition, a serious coordinated intervention, a therapy finally adapted to the gravity of the situation; it's a therapy that comes from listening to and analyzing the people who are fighting organized crime on a daily basis. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the judges and police officers, the scholars and witnesses in the courts who contributed their valuable experience to the final solutions proposed and who, every day, in a spirit of service and self-sacrifice, represent the member states in an unequal fight against criminal organizations. criminal organizations are motivated by profit: the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat organised crime. we therefore look with great interest to the proposal for a directive which the european commission will present in the coming months on a european corpus juris on the detection, freezing, seizure and confiscation of criminal assets. i am therefore very pleased to have commissioner reding here, to whom i express the clear political will of the european parliament: we call for european rules allowing for so-called extended confiscation and for preventive and effective measures such as confiscation without conviction. we are calling for rules to allow the seizure of assets held in trust and, above all, we are calling for rules on the use of confiscated assets for social purposes, to close the circle of this cultural operation and the full involvement of civil society, without which the mere fight against organised crime would be a futile effort. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the report. harmonisation of the rules on organised crime; rules for greater protection of victims; the extension of the crime of mafia association to all member states; improving coordination and cooperation between europol, eurojust and olaf, and with national authorities; improving judicial cooperation and fully implementing the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions; transparency and prevention rules to prevent public funds from ending up in the hands of organised crime; rules against financial crime and money laundering; the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of penalties for the use of the death penalty in the european union. we are convinced of one thing, commissioner: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will use all the means at our disposal to ensure that we get down to business, in line with the existing treaties which, in full respect of the democratic nature of the european union, give the national and european parliamentary assemblies the fundamental role of guiding and evaluating policies on freedom, security and justice in the interests of citizens. we therefore expect the commission to take note of the importance and political significance of the european parliament's position right away. one last thing, though perhaps the most important: i would like to dedicate this work, this first step which the european parliament is about to take, to all the innocent victims of organised crime and the mafia. their memory, the memory of those who paid with their lives for their choice not to give in to the stench of moral compromise, must be our guide and require us to send strong and unmistakable signals, such as the one i hope we will send to the citizens of europe tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs alfano, on having given a strong impetus to an important measure which, as you said earlier, clearly shows a consistent contribution from all the other political groups: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. with this measure, and especially with the proposals which the commission will certainly want to put forward, there will no longer be the present barriers at the frontiers of the member states to attack the assets of the mafia and, above all, to give concrete enforceability to the orders issued by the judicial authorities of the member states. hard prison, severe prison for those who have been stained by such abnormal crimes; remote hearings of witnesses and judicial assistants; confiscation for social purposes; judicial cooperation based on trust; the report makes possible a new kind of legislation, one which is increasingly being developed to protect honest citizens, to protect honest businessmen and to respond to the pride of those who have not bowed to the mafia and have had to pay, in some circumstances by dying, for this pride and this pride.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too congratulate the rapporteur, mrs alfano, on this important report, which is becoming a fundamental reference point for parliament's action in a field which constitutes a new and strengthened competence under the lisbon treaty and which, with regard to the subject of the fight against organised crime and the mafia in the european union, with the provision of a special committee, the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and the harmonisation of the legislation of the member states, is a fundamental point. i also appreciate that some of the proposals i made as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee have been incorporated, for example, to promote the role of associations of victims' families and the creation of a european forum, and to call for a holistic approach to the issue of trafficking in human beings, and in particular children, and illegal adoptions, also in the light of the recent european directive. i would like to emphasize a little more than what has been said in the text that women and children are the majority of the victims, direct or indirect, especially of criminal activities against the person, and that there must therefore be a specific and targeted effort to support and protect women victims of crime and violence, even when they are witnesses or dissociated, especially within mafia and criminal families, also enhancing their role when they are involved in the culture of legality. i would also like to mention the many women who are increasingly involved in the fight against crime, in the judiciary, in the legal profession, in law enforcement, but also among teachers, who are really trying to change the culture of our young people in this area.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank ms alfano for this very comprehensive report. the long list of recommendations will undoubtedly be a rich source of inspiration for the commission’s future work in this field. organised crime covers many areas of illegal activity and is a global phenomenon, as is the fight against it. not surprisingly, various recommendations address policy areas beyond home affairs. many of these recommendations will be helpful to the commission in mainstreaming the fight against organised crime in other policy areas, including in our relations with third countries. the commission welcomes the call to member states to sign and ratify existing international instruments, which are building blocks. the existing instruments should also be duly implemented, both within the eu and by our partner countries. the european commission is assessing the transposition of the framework decision on the fight against organised crime. we will conduct a study, which should provide a clear picture of the current situation in this field. the eu approach vis-à-vis organised crime is a strategic one, based on common objectives. this is set out in the commission’s internal security strategy communication of november 2010. there are a number of goals we want to reach. the upcoming first annual report on the implementation of the internal security strategy will provide the necessary details. one of the key objectives is to combat organised crime, to uproot its driving force and its profit motive. crime should not pay, so we have to tackle the financial gains. in june the commission adopted an anti-corruption package, and future eu anti-corruption reports will encourage more commitment – also at national level – to help eradicate this phenomenon. confiscation and recovery of the proceeds of crime is an essential component. we are preparing a new legislative proposal in order to replace existing instruments and to enhance member states’ ability to confiscate assets. financial information has the potential to become a key investigative tool. the commission intends to propose a strategy in this field in 2012. europol and eurojust remain very important hubs for supporting police and judicial cooperation. there have been many success stories recently regarding the trafficking of human beings and child pornography, which have shown their effectiveness. we need to continue to reflect on how to enhance the potential of these agencies in the future. there are many other points which the rapporteur has put in her report, and we will come back to these in a very concrete way. tomorrow, for instance, the commission will put on the table a communication entitled ‘towards a stronger european response to drugs’, announcing the overhaul of the eu rules to fight illicit drugs, for instance. so we are advancing very quickly and hope that you will continue to help us to get ahead, not only with reports but also with very necessary concrete actions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 october 2011 at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by cristian dan preda, on behalf of the committee on development, on the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness (2011/2145 ((ini)) (a7-0313/2011).
member of the commission. − madam president, i think i need to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr preda, for his excellent report, even if he did not have a very broad audience tonight to discuss these issues. there is definitely convergence between the eu institutions on the issue, but still a lot of work needs to be done. we are well prepared for the busan conference. first of all i welcome the fact that there will be three members of the european parliament in the eu delegation, which will definitely make it much stronger. as regards challenges, we need one outcome document at the end of the day, because there are a couple of challenges to tackle. one challenge is to reflect on the paris declaration and accra agenda for action and what we have achieved. as the rapporteur mentioned, as a donor community we have not actually achieved today what we should have done according to the indicators. so that means that we need to confirm the paris declaration in a way that gives us many more assurances that credible development plans will be followed as regards the necessary support for aid effectiveness. as ms záborská said, our goal is to help people to help themselves. that is why the aid effectiveness agenda is so crucial, because it gives the decisive push towards the mdgs. i think that is the first block. in way it is clear; in theory everybody agrees. but what we need to look at is how to formulate it in such a way that, in the years to come, we do not fail on these indicators and in the process. that is crucial. the second issue is related to the new donors. the landscape has changed. looking at it from my point of view as development commissioner, china, india and other actors are coming into development aid, and not disclosing to the aid effectiveness agenda as the traditional donor countries do. so in a way it is a contradictory situation. we try to help, whilst not knowing exactly what the other partners are doing. a part of the aid effectiveness agenda should be that everybody follows the same process, perhaps not at the same pace, but we are all transparent. if we are not transparent then the risk is that we do actually not support the countries sufficiently in fighting poverty. i think it is very crucial to find a good way of involving new donors in the aid effectiveness agenda. the third issue that is very crucial is increasing transparency. as there is an economic crisis in the european union, people are increasingly asking what results have been achieved in development. the best answer is definitely to give full transparency as to how the resources are being used. i definitely could give this house assurances that the money has not been wasted. it has definitely helped millions of people move out of poverty, and more kids to get to school and to survive in very difficult conditions. but still the public at large expects even more transparency as regards the money that is being used for development aid. that also leads us to ask for some commitments. on the eu side we are looking for two particular deliverables before busan: transparency – guarantees that basically all eu-funded support for development policies is fully transparent – and the joint programme, which we are about to discuss with member countries at the end of october. we have moved quite a lot with regard to coordination on the spot, but the weakness of coordination is that you know, but you do not change. it means that you need to establish cycles that follow each other, and fit in with the development plan of a particular country. it seems that coordination is not enough, so basically the answer is joint programming exercises in the eu. we held out with this in the haiti case and south sudan, now it is a time to be more ambitious. only in this way, going in step with respective countries’ development plans, can we really make the necessary synergies and save the eur 5 to 6 billion that the rapporteur mentioned in his presentation. we know full well that if we use joint programming we actually get more money for development, at the same time not taxing anybody. i believe busan will be an extremely interesting conference. it is a bit different from the mdg conference last year, and the istanbul conference, so it will be rather challenging to get everybody involved, including developing countries and new donors. but it should be a success, it is a main development not only this year, but before the mdg deadline in 2015. it is quite a commitment and i am grateful for this excellent report that gives guarantees that the eu will again be the leader as it was also in accra.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 october 2011 at 12.30 p.m.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although it is too early to make a final judgment, it is difficult to escape the impression that this semester is producing weak coordination and inadequate democratic legitimacy, and the two are linked because, without full democratic legitimacy, the semester risks being more a bureaucratic exercise than a substantive coordination. this limitation certainly refers to the crucial point of the union's powers, the prerogatives of parliament, which should be the very heart of an otherwise useless or harmful reform of the treaties. but this limit also highlights a problem of actual political will to use all the instruments offered by the treaty immediately, to strengthen coordination and to give a greater role to the european parliament. there is also a problem of content. the council's recommendations reveal a clear limit to the economic policy which inspired them: the reduction of the deficit and the development of the internal market are necessary but not sufficient conditions for countering the crisis and, without a large investment plan, they risk triggering a vicious circle that can lead to our collapse. it is therefore good that the political line of the six-month period should be the subject of a genuine political debate, which can only take place in the dialectic between the european parliament and the european council.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank everybody for their contribution to this debate. the most fundamental change introduced by the european semester is the fact that european-level coordination of fiscal and economic policies now happens before national decisions are finalised. until this year, national policies and budgets had been assessed at eu level only after national decisions. this is a major change and, as has been mentioned by many members today, it implies an increased democratic responsibility for eu institutions. this calls for more participation of the eu institutions in national debates. we need to find a way to do this. the commission has so far preferred to avoid challenging national policies in public debate. the european semester and the ‘six-pack’ will be instrumental in delivering stability, growth and jobs in europe in the coming years. they will help us avoid the emergence of the kind of fiscal and market economic imbalances that resulted in the current crisis. but you are right: the european semester is not a crisis management tool. it will deliver results in terms of stability and growth within a few years, which is why two weeks ago we presented the stability and growth roadmap, elements of which have been addressed by the european council and will feature in the euro summit tomorrow. in the short term we need to agree on a substantial recovery path for greece, coordinated recapitalisation of banks and maximising the firepower of our financial backstops. in the longer term we need to agree on measures for growth and strengthening of economic governance. with the european semester we are already making good progress on the last element: building a true economic union. as a final note, let me just underline my conviction that the introduction of the european semester represents a very important step forward. this house has already made an important contribution to making the european semester more effective, including by bolstering its legitimacy. it will also in the future be the crucial role of the european parliament and national parliaments to continue ensuring the democratic ownership of our joint policy coordination. we are all now called on to put this into practice together.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank all the speakers who have expressed their views on the european semester. the dominant element that was reflected in your statements was the democratic element of this whole process and who should really decide in this whole process. i often have the pleasure of attending meetings in the national parliament, my own, in poland. what i'm hearing is exactly the same thing, just from a slightly different angle. national parliaments are constantly claiming to be the ultimate decision-makers in their countries, believing that they know best what is good for their citizens. the european semester is for that purpose. on the one hand, for the first time, as the commissioner has pointed out, the european parliament is involved in the whole decisionmaking process. on the other hand, it is the national parliament that knows what the european institutions think about the economy of the country and the implementation of the priorities set by the european union. it knows the position taken by the government when preparing the draft budget and the national reform programmes and it alone, with its own autonomy, decides how and to what extent it will be implemented, because it is the national parliament that makes the final decision on the shape of the national budget, which is the most important instrument for the implementation of macroeconomic policy in a country. so i find it hard to accept that the whole process is devoid of the democratic element and transparency, because the institution that has the most influence on the whole process is involved in it at this very moment. it is difficult to say whether this whole process, the whole european semester, is a great success or not, because the process is not yet over. we do not know how national parliaments will translate into national budgets the european union's recommendations on the country's macroeconomic policy priorities. the european semester was designed to involve national parliaments in the process, to show national parliaments and other institutions, especially national ones, because they are the ones who make the final decisions, about the threats that may be lurking in their country or that already exist at this moment. the aim is to redress the macroeconomic imbalances that have arisen between member states. when, as the commissioner said, the control of the whole process was secondary, after the adoption of the budget, after the adoption of most of the implementing laws, the european commission and the council could only point out that the member states had taken the wrong path, that the actions in question would exacerbate the disadvantages of the economic situation of the country concerned. now the process has been reversed, and the final decision has been left to the most democratic institution in the process, the national parliament, which has the best contact with its own citizens and with what should be done. so i think that the structure of the european semester is at least correct, and it is difficult to say that it lacks democratic rules. but if it is used by the main addressee, the national parliaments, we will only be able to assess it in a few months.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the die is cast. i would like to begin my speech by saying what caesar said when he crossed the rubicon with his legion, the tenth invicta, and thus open the debate on the discharge of the council. this quote marks, then as now, a decisive moment, a real watershed in the history of this legislature and of this parliament. it is through the power of control over all the community institutions and the budgetary power that the european parliament expresses and at the same time makes its political priorities known, and to deprive it of these powers would be to empty the very meaning of the democratic principle and the right of representation. the question we are discussing today is therefore not one of claiming a privilege; the council has not, as it would like, shown a desire to extort money and to seize political power at the expense of others. it is rather the affirmation of the legitimate, intangible, inviolable role of the european parliament, its duty to ensure the constant monitoring of the expenditure of the european institutions and its right to be recognised as the discharge authority. parliament is not a self-referential authority but an authority, an institution representing the people of europe. this role, as the legal service has repeated, involves a twofold articulation: on the one hand, a first accounting phase, the closure of accounts, which culminates (in accordance with the provisions of article 319 of the treaty) in the granting of discharge to the commission, is carried out, and on the other hand, the political value of the discharge is developed, that is, the opinion expressed by parliament on the management of the accounts of all the institutions, without exception. we reluctantly acknowledge that we have been pushed aside too many times. the council has too often been uncooperative, often reluctant to exchange documents and unwilling to recognise us as the 'legitimate discharge authority'. it is for these reasons that we are today expressing a strongly negative opinion of the council's expenditure and voting against discharge. it is precisely this last phase that we must confront today, with respect for the diversity of views and with the sole aim of affirming the integration of europe, which, in a word, finally becomes the europe of the peoples. that is why we believe - and we firmly believe - that europe, precisely because of its millennial civilization, precisely because it is a community of destiny, represents the hope and the reference point for a world without a soul, emptied of mercantilism and shaped by an absurd conception of the world and of life, which would like to deprive its role of fundamental principles and values, such as those of belonging and of being rooted. today's vote is also all of that: the lisbon treaty has given us a high degree of efficiency and a difficult task to accomplish in compliance with the principles of transparency and democracy, which are the foundations of europe's system of protection of its citizens. it is in accordance with these principles that we do not believe we can today call the council's work satisfactory and, being certain that it is acting for a just cause, for the common good, we have no reason to fear a possible confrontation before the court of justice, nor do we fear the intergovernmental institution after our vote. i therefore ask the house to vote against the council's discharge.
member of the commission. − madam president, we have noticed the various comments throughout this house, and also some calls for cooperation between the institutions, which we welcome. the commission can only emphasise the political nature of this question. the commission is of the opinion that all the institutions should cooperate together for the smooth functioning of their work. in any case the commission will continue to actively participate in the procedure, and i can assure you once again that you can count on committed interlocutors on the commission side.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! the council's position was communicated to the european parliament by letters of 2 june and 17 october of that year. the council considers that the discharge procedure was completed on 10 may this year, when the european commission was given its discharge. we are aware of the discussions that are currently taking place and therefore the council has asked the european parliament to open discussions on a new long-term agreement between the european parliament and the council on the discharge rules governing the relations between the two budgetary institutions. i hope that the european parliament will be able to take a positive decision quickly to start such a discussion on a new agreement. the council shall not impose any preconditions as to the form or content of this agreement. we are particularly concerned that this period of a certain amount of disagreement between the two institutions should end and that - as commissioner dalli has also said - we should reach a stage where the two institutions cooperate effectively on budgetary matters.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you: if we have the right to grant discharge to the council and the council itself, without any cooperation, considers this a priori given, what right is that? what is the value of this parliament? we are not afraid that our vote may invalidate the gentlemen's agreement and a possible appeal to the court of justice. parliament has decided - the majority of my colleagues have spoken - and i also call on those who are still hesitant to cooperate fully in defending the rights of parliament, which must be respected. i would like to make an appeal to the council, because if it changes its attitude from today, if there is real cooperation, if it recognizes parliament's role as the democratic representative of the rights of citizens, we can reconsider our position. so i appeal to you, knowing full well that the discharge to the commission of 10 may has nothing to do with the present decision, because these are two completely different tracks, and that this is a political chamber and today's vote is a political result and has great political significance. i therefore appeal to the council, but in the absence of a positive response from the council, i ask all members to defend the rights of european citizens by refusing to grant the council discharge.
vice-president of the commission. − for me the cap is indeed an in-between proposal, because we need a cap until we know that this new situation of competition in the market in data is working. otherwise we are just confronting the consumer with prices that are too high. we have experience in this area and i think we have to learn from that. so all in all we are talking about decoupling roaming, as it were, both from what has been done and what is at stake for the future.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr malcolm harbour, of course neelie kroes and mr john dalli can give their views on this subject, because, i repeat, the originality and the exemplary nature of what we are doing with the single market act is also due to the fact that we have worked together in good faith, particularly on the basis of the report by mr louis grech and the work of your committee and other committees, juri for example. in addition, we are 13 or 14 commissioners who have worked together for several months. that's not enough to be successful. we are putting forward legislative proposals which are all facilitative, proactive proposals for growth. ladies and gentlemen, we know very well, and it is not too much to say, that there is no more public money to be distributed to create growth, or much more. so we have to do it differently, because we have a duty to create growth. the citizens expect it. they are not just waiting for regulation, austerity, supervision or governance. that is the aim of the single market act. i was very pleased to note that, as malcolm harbour has just said, in the conclusions of the european council on sunday - which i imagine will be reinforced by the conclusions of the next european council tomorrow - the question of the single market act is, perhaps for the first time, so clearly a priority in economic policy. we have a duty to unlock the capacity for innovation (with patents), investment (with sme financing, venture capital), export and mobility within this large market of 500 million consumers and 22 million businesses. now the key, indeed, malcolm harbour, is for governments to take this act for the single market. that is why it is positive that at the highest level the heads of state and government are taking this into account and even indicate that they want to move quickly, that an accelerated procedure must be developed with parliament, between the co-legislators. now, mr. president harbour, i will continue the work i have been patiently doing in the field. we cannot be good commissioners if we sit in our offices in brussels. so i'm going to keep going. i have almost completed my tour of all the capitals, meeting officials, national parliaments, economic actors, and i am now going to make a second visit to each member state, going on the ground, as we did together in krakow for the governance of the internal market, which must be improved on the basis of our proposals and those of parliament.
vice-president of the commission. − the honourable member, mr harbour, is touching upon an issue that is quite sensitive. in general, everybody agrees that we should take opportunities, but in daily life sometimes thoughts are a bit different from actions. one of the issues that are a real challenge is that of connecting europe’s facilities. talking about my own shop, so to speak, out of the money that is made in the proposal as a reservation – eur 9.2 billion for broadband investment – if you leverage the 9.2 billion, this goes up to eur 100 billion. so do not tell me that there is no money for that type of investment. however, there we badly need the involvement of the member states and also the attitude and the approach of member states. that is all connected: it is connected not only with our sectors but also with the sectors of everything that is at stake, such as the economy, creating jobs, culture, social welfare and so on. so we must make full use of structural funds for broadband, and spend unspent funds. i was quite disappointed with the figures showing that the spending fund is not 100% accessible. the money is there but we have to make it available, and here the member state is absolutely crucial. so we need regulation according to the fixed eu-wide end dates for the single euro payments area (sepa). michel is quite involved in that, agreeing with the radio spectrum policy programme. and then there is the wireless services market: eur 250 billion, double growth rates per year predicted for mobile data and the member states to accelerate the allocation of spectrums for mobile communication. i am grateful to parliament that we are near to reaching an agreement on spectrums. it seems possible that at the end of this week there will be an agreement with parliament. i am crossing my fingers and will be glad to help. so we have the fast-tracking upcoming commission proposals; the revised directive on reuse of public sector information and revision and reuse of the commission information; the growth potential of the public sector information market and indirect impacts (eur 140 billion); a consumer sales law to support cross-border e-commerce, which was discussed earlier on; the revised data protection directive to enable cloud offers; the revised e-signature directive and regulation on mutual recognition of eid; and the revised procurement directives, saving eur 50 to 75 billion. i could go on, but i can see from your body language that i should stop.
member of the commission. − i have just a few short points to make, otherwise malcolm harbour will persecute me if i do not say anything on this. again, i reiterate that consumer confidence in the market is key if we want growth. the market is demand and supply, and unless we give consumers the confidence in the market to increase their demand, then all attempts will fail. so what we are doing is buttressing consumer empowerment in the european union. we are working with ms reding on a consumer strategy, which i hope we will bring forward very shortly and which will be based on issues that we can bring to the member states. one issue is safety: we already have quite good arrangements on safety, which, with commissioner tajani, we will be strengthening through the product safety directive. information is another issue, and here parliament has already contributed quite a lot in relation to labelling and other information aspects. redress is a further issue, which we talked about previously in relation to alternative dispute resolution (adr) and collective redress. and then there is the question of enforcement, on which we would probably need rather more gumption in order to make all these directives we have mentioned implementable in the various member states.
member of the commission. - mr president, it is a real step forward that the european council has taken over the european single market act. there is a greater chance, if the prime ministers or heads of government commit, that their ministers will commit afterwards. however, you are right, the process will need to be monitored. i do this, for example, when i visit each of the member states. since you were talking about citizens, how will they take ownership of this single market? how are we going to reconcile them with the single market? there are very practical tools. you mentioned the one-stop shops. i am talking about solvit or "europe is yours". these are some of the tools that i check, during each of my visits, that they work. this was not always the case, even in my own country, where i found, for example, that the solvit system was working, as recently as a year and a half ago, with a trainee. things have improved since then. so i'm doing this concrete verification to make sure that the tools closest to the citizens and businesses are working properly. this is the first key in this national and european growth strategy.
vice-president of the commission. − i recently had a cup of coffee with martha lane fox, the ‘digital champion’ in the united kingdom. she is doing an extremely good job not only for the uk and its government but also by way of example and providing inspiration, at least for me. what i decided after that meeting was to ask commission president barroso to write a letter to every colleague in the heads of state council, asking for the appointment in each of the 27 member states of someone like martha lane fox as digital ambassador. i will follow up with a letter to my own counterparts in the member states. for, while i admire michel, with his travelling experience – and john and i are doing our utmost to follow his lead – at the end of the day, this is something that should be done within the member states. they should have someone who is not only a role model but who is also aware of what is, in most of the fields concerned, missing or lacking.
member of the commission. − we are constantly working on the ground with member states to implement the directives that are under their responsibility: safety, for example, and passing on best practice from one country to another. we could train member states’ staff to make sure that they can adhere to the directives and implement them properly. i think this is the practical way of ensuring that citizens are connected with whatever we are doing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barnier, in the field of innovation, european smes continue to suffer from slower development than their counterparts in the united states and other emerging economies. in this context, unitary patent protection can be a great opportunity to strengthen the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in innovation and research, while contributing to the revival of the internal market. i would therefore like to ask you whether you intend to propose specific measures in the medium or short term to facilitate access to the european patent market for small and mediumsized enterprises, for example a european fund which would take on the responsibilities and the responsibility of paying registration fees on behalf of smes, and whether you believe that the current legislative process can contribute to and provide an opportunity for the implementation of this objective.
mr president, i would like to ask commissioner barnier a question: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in italy the application of this directive has created a number of problems, but i would like to mention one in particular, namely that of bathing establishments. the bathing establishments are a peculiarity of italy: only in italy are they so developed, a true "made in italy". these are often family-run micro-enterprises, which employ a large number of people, especially in the summer season. at a time of general crisis, uncertainty about the future has also been added to this sector: one of europe's slogans is to think small. but the danger is that these very small establishments will disappear, leaving the way open for large multinational tourism companies. i would therefore ask you whether a derogation for this category or any special measures for this sector would be possible.
mr president, commissioner, i cannot believe that there is competition between small and mediumsized enterprises and large multinationals, and we cannot remain silent while europe steals our excellence, our small businesses and our traditions. the other question i wanted to ask you is this: there were other categories which were excluded from the directive, such as pharmacies, health services, newsstands, but also private security services. these companies also provide and carry out a tourist protection activity, providing the necessary daily information on bathing, but also monitoring the sea and the coasts themselves. i would therefore like to know why private security services have been excluded and those who do this kind of security are not excluded.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is the first time that this parliament has spoken about the situation of single mothers in europe, a category of women who are increasingly vulnerable and at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs and my colleagues on the femm committee who have worked with me and i conclude by wishing that the european commission will also be able to deal in the future with the situation of single fathers, who represent 15% of single-parent families in europe. we are talking about equal opportunities, so for women and men.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to call for a rollcall vote on the final vote on the report on organised crime. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, mr iacolino, mr crocetta, mr albrecht, mr de jong, mr kirkhope, mr borsellino and mr costa, because they all made a decisive contribution to the final report. ladies and gentlemen, in the gallery are the families of mafia victims, judges and witnesses to justice. if parliament approves this report today, we will have given due recognition and we can dedicate this work to all the innocent victims of organised crime and the mafias. their memory, the memory of those who paid with their lives for their choice not to give in to the stench of moral compromise, must be our guide and require us to send strong and unequivocal signals, such as the one i hope we are going to give to the citizens of europe today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, adr (alternative dispute resolution in civil, commercial and family matters) is a valid alternative to the traditional conflict-based approach between the parties, allowing for an effective and cost-effective resolution of disputes. i therefore share the horizontal approach of mrs wallis, who extends the benefits of adr to civil and commercial transactions between companies and to family disputes. in this context, i hope that the commission's forthcoming legislative proposal will meet the key points highlighted by this parliament: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the need to ensure a high level of impartiality and transparency of systems, the application of adr to electronic commerce, through a multilingual platform accessible online, and the promotion of adr as a viable and cost-effective alternative to forms of collective redress.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. wherever possible, alternative dispute resolution methods are an excellent solution which, while fully respecting the will of the litigants, shortens the time taken to process and cuts the costs of red tape. in family law matters too, where the parties are willing, mediation can be useful in finding friendly meeting points for sharing, in order to avoid, especially for minors, trauma and frustration caused by the uncertainty and lengthy procedures, which unfortunately do not always take into account the best interests of the child. as the european parliament's mediator in cases of international child abduction, i can testify that when there is a willingness on the part of the parents to find a solution, this is a guarantee for a quick solution with respect for all parties.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs wallis's text. while not prejudicing the usual channels of access to justice, i am convinced that alternative dispute resolution (adr) is a quick and cost-effective alternative to litigation. in addition to being an effective tool for small and medium-sized enterprises, adr can have a significant development, including online, for the resolution of minor disputes. it is therefore necessary to promote, through joint action with the member states, the creation of a harmonised legal framework which, by strengthening citizens' confidence in the internal market, can help to stimulate the european economy.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report by mr tatarella, which calls for a three-year delay in the entry into force of phase iiib for the introduction on the market of more efficient tractors for the reduction of co2 and polluting gases. in the case of tractors, the parameters set out in directive 2005/13 were revised for several reasons: the sudden drop in sales due to the current economic crisis and the lack of technical solutions to limit co2 emissions. the amendment to the directive should be transposed swiftly so that it can be implemented as quickly as possible. i hope that the european commission will heed the european parliament's call to examine in advance whether the available technologies will be able to meet the requirements of the phase iv foreseen for 2014.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the provisions for tractors placed on the market under a flexibility scheme, which we voted in favour of, was inspired by a measured and realistic approach which was achieved, on the one hand, by avoiding the setting of unlikely and impossible requirements and, on the other, by providing for a so-called flexibility scheme which, by providing for time-frames and corresponding quantitative limits on permitted emissions, provides for the placing on the market of a predetermined annual quota of tractors with certain characteristics and thus makes it possible to dilute over time the adaptation to the standards laid down, without prejudice to the production and industrial sectors concerned. the work carried out by mr tatarella was important and he was able to strike a careful balance between the needs dictated by the great challenges facing the european union at this time and those of environmental protection and the current context of economic crisis.
mr president, although it is important to reduce the emissions of gaseous pollutants and pollutants produced by the internal combustion engines of non-road mobile machinery, we cannot turn a blind eye to the current crisis situation facing manufacturers. since 2008, the non-road mobile machinery sector has been hit hard by the financial and economic crisis. further extension of the flexibility scheme for the transition from stage iiia to stage iiib was an obligation. the increase in the flexibility scheme from 20% to 37.5% of the number of engines used on ground-based machinery is, in my view, an unsatisfactory result for the european industry in this sector. however, in view of the situation and the continuing delays on the part of our parliament, the producers were demanding a rapid response. i would therefore like to make it clear that it is for this reason alone that i have decided to support the report with my vote.
mr president, in order to ensure the full integration of disabled people into society, it is necessary that the member states, in line with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, invest in accessibility, both in terms of transport and modern and advanced infrastructure, for mobility that guarantees the full and effective inclusion and participation of disabled people on an equal basis of dignity. in the context of a new union disability strategy, with particular reference to the tourism sector, it is important to ensure accessibility for disabled people not only to means of transport but also to accommodation, catering and all tourist services in general. it is also important to remember the importance of providing information in formats accessible to people with sensory disabilities, an aspect that must be increasingly central in regulating the rights of passengers and tourists. this is all the more relevant in the light of the approximately 80 million potential disabled tourists in the union, with the resulting induction, who must be enabled to travel and be considered tourists in their own right. for these reasons i voted in favour of the kósa report.
mr president, in order to assess the report adopted today, we must start by projecting two basic figures: the fact that the number of people with disabilities is likely to double by 2050, and the fact that we don't have enough data at the moment to process the severity of the problem. the challenge we face with this disability strategy 2010 is to ensure that people with disabilities not only enjoy human rights like everyone else, but that those rights can actually be exercised. it is therefore essential to give disabled people a higher status by encouraging them to train, by allowing them freedom of movement and access to the world of work: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the unemployed, and this will also help to combat one of the major problems that accompany this category in their misfortune, namely poverty.
mr president, there are still many obstacles to the full social inclusion of the 80 million disabled. i hope that the member states and the commission will take up the challenge and draw up legislation to facilitate its integration. member states have not yet signed the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. despite the economic crisis, i hope that national governments will demonstrate their capacity to protect them by putting in place policies consistent with the european disability strategy and europe 2020. i appreciate and share the report by mr kósa, who, drawing on his own experience, has been able to give, with an open heart, concrete indications to enable disabled people to have non-discriminatory access to social protection, health care and education.
mr president, the statistics are well known, but perhaps it is worth recalling: 80 million people in the european union with disabilities, over 15% of the population: one in four europeans has a disabled person in his or her family. people with disabilities are three to four times more likely to be unemployed than the rest of the population. people with disabilities are 50% less likely to achieve a university level of education than people with normal abilities. one in two disabled people have never participated in recreational activities or sports and one third of all disabled people have never travelled abroad, or even participated in day trips, because of the inaccessibility of facilities and services. europe must really do more to break down the differences which unfortunately lead to the existence of 'a' and 'b' citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
mr president, i not only congratulate mr kosa but i thank him for the work he has done and for this excellent report. each of us carries with us a world of our own, made up of personal experiences and different lifestyles. each person is unique and special, and that's why they're different. in this sense, diversity must be understood as a resource, in terms of growth and enrichment for the whole of society, a heritage of culture and skills. accepting any disability is not a good deed, but a recognition of the person's true nature. unfortunately, the barriers that still exist today are not just architectural but mostly mental. we must remove all the barriers that society still poses in order to finally move from the culture of disability to that of normality. while the state intervenes with specific laws, society is not always ready to accept them fully and to maintain them spontaneously. the european parliament's message in this report is: disabled people are a resource of society and must be an active part of it as much as the rest of us.
mr president, public procurement can play a decisive role in the economic budget of the european union: public expenditure on works, goods and services represents around 17% of the union's gross domestic product and almost a fifth of this expenditure - around €420 billion - falls under the european union's public procurement directives. i therefore congratulate mrs rühle on drawing what i believe to be the red lines of the forthcoming reform of the procurement directive: i am referring in particular to the lowest price criterion, which cannot continue to be decisive during the award phase and must be replaced by the most economically advantageous tender in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits. i also fully agree with the urgency of simplifying the rules so that procurement procedures are streamlined, less cumbersome and more closely aligned with the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises and small contracting authorities.
mr president, i too fully agree with the general approach taken by mrs rühle in her report and that is why i voted in favour. i am convinced that the measures adopted will ensure legal certainty on the one hand and clearer rules and more flexible procedures for public procurement on the other. i support the view of the honourable member that the procurement directives themselves are the biggest obstacle to making public procurement serve general social objectives: the criterion of the lowest price cannot have the same value as the most economically advantageous price. the most economically advantageous tender should become the rule. only then will the criteria for the preparation of the tender be feasible.
mr president, i voted in favour of the green paper on the modernisation of public procurement for two main reasons. firstly, the identification of the most economically advantageous tender which takes account of the costs of the entire life cycle of works, services and supplies and therefore not only of the lowest price, the implementation of a common and widespread feeling in all countries and in all contracting authorities, which will allow for an increase in quality, while at the same time paying greater attention to the environmental and social sustainability of products and services. secondly, simplification, which will be achieved through greater flexibility, which will allow for more streamlined procedures and more competition for small and mediumsized enterprises in the award of contracts. i would add, in particular, that in this respect e-procurement, which currently represents less than 5% of the union's public procurement coverage, should be encouraged and that the publication of calls for tender, broken down by lots, will allow participation in contracts to be more transparent.
mr president, there is no doubt that this text, the one on the modernisation of public procurement, can be an important element in the renewed efficiency and sustainability of the economic system. there is no doubt that an objective criterion for measuring the efficiency and effectiveness of public procurement is to have procedures that are streamlined, agile and simplified. the transition to the most economically advantageous tender for the selection of the contractor is important and the use of online procedures and so-called electronic procurement is appropriate, while simplified access for small and mediumsized enterprises can certainly be a moment of enhancement for this very important sector. in the committee on international trade we had foreseen and defined the exclusion of companies and firms convicted of mafia offences by a judgment which has been upheld, irrespective of the member state whose judicial authority has decided in this respect. we hope that this measure will be accepted in the revision of the subsequent directive.
mr president, with today's vote we have laid the foundations for the future revision of the procurement directive. simpler bureaucratic procedures and criteria for participation in public tenders are a key tool for speeding up the implementation process and for giving full effect to contracts between public administrations and private parties. increased use of information and communication technologies would save both time and cost for businesses and public administrations, with increased transparency and accessibility. i would like to stress that the lowest price criterion does not always have to be the main means of awarding contracts: perhaps it is necessary to replace it with the most cost-effective offer to achieve economic, social and environmental benefits.
mr president, the present world economic crisis, even more serious than that of 1929, has caused unsustainable imbalances in the international economies in recent years. trade disparities between countries, financial markets lacking common rules, instability in banking systems, are all potential threats to financial and economic stability. this resolution, which i support, stresses the urgent need for total reform with new rules and for global economic coordination. the economy needs a system of global governance, open markets, high economic and social standards, a more responsible monetary policy and stricter supervisory policies, and international decision-making bodies and economic bodies must be the main actors at the heart of this new approach. europe in particular needs a clear and transparent framework to reduce the instability exacerbated by globalisation and to ensure far-reaching reforms to promote growth and reduce the debt of individual states. this is the commitment which this resolution stresses to all countries.
mr president, 5% of women are single mothers and they represent 85% of single-parent families: this is a very worrying figure, not least because it is a worryingly growing phenomenon and because it represents a segment of society at high risk of poverty. as single mothers with dependent children, these women are often forced to make forced choices, work part-time, drop out of school, be underpaid, live in poverty and suffer unacceptable discrimination. let us not forget that there are also many women, single mothers, with disabled children to care for. i am therefore grateful to the rapporteur for her sensitivity and for the excellent work she has done.
mr president, by adopting this report, the european parliament is once again showing its support for women who are left to raise a child alone. all too often, these mothers are forgotten by the institutions and hastily labeled as a minority of irresponsible young people, forced to pay a heavy price for their mistakes. the truth is very different, and - as my colleague angelilli has also pointed out recently - single mothers now represent 5% of all european women. and it's also crucial to dispel once and for all the myth of their middle age: 85% are aged between 25 and 64. to continue to ignore this reality only aggravates their situation. i welcome the adoption of paragraph 29, which aims to promote the reconciliation of family and working life, by promoting flexible working hours and creating nursery schools, but i hope that these are not just promises but concrete commitments which will soon be fulfilled.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report by mrs matera, which analyses the situation of single mothers, who today represent, as has already been said, more than 5% of the population of the european union. the european union has a moral obligation to protect them and the text adopted today supports policies which can provide practical help for these women, such as facilitating access to health care, flexible working arrangements which allow a balance between private and professional life, priority access to affordable housing and special unemployment benefits. only by adopting these measures can the needs of a growing number of people in all the advanced and industrialized countries be met.
mr president, the report, which is based on a principle which we all share, namely that single mothers are at a disadvantage compared with a normal family situation, does not provide any measures to prevent fraud. let me get this straight: if a woman in a cohabiting couple declares herself to be a single mother, she in fact gains advantages over another woman who is legally married or who declares herself to be cohabiting. in italy, but i believe also in other countries of the union, it is not compulsory to register the existence of a cohabitation in a couple, even if the couple lives as a normal family. it is therefore clear that rules favourable to mothers who declare themselves to be single could facilitate the choice of couples not to register the existence of cohabitation, thus hindering the creation of stable families. for these reasons, we abstain on the report.
mr president, today europe is taking an important step towards becoming aware that organized crime is a european problem that has been underestimated for too long and reduced to local situations or individual member states. i fully support the report's approach and hope that a legislative proposal will soon be put forward to establish a european anti-mafia committee capable of analysing the phenomenon of organised crime in a professional manner and combating it through the institutions. culture, education, development and employment in europe are the cornerstones on which criminal organisations can build their recruitment networks. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against crime and to ensure that the fight against crime is not confined to the criminal justice system.
mr president, it is important that europe is on the front line against all forms of organised crime and all mafias. i really want to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done. i would like to mention a few of the highlights of this report: stricter rules to prevent access to public funds and criminal or mafia-like organisations; new laws to exclude from procurement enterprises linked to organised crime; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data against fraud and other irregularities. our efforts must continue if we are to achieve a european area of freedom and justice. we owe it to our citizens, we also owe it to the many victims of organised crime and their families.
mr president, europe is one of the main donors of development funds and we must maintain this characteristic despite the crisis, because any country in difficulty would not have the strength to rise up without the help of the international community. but this aid must follow a strategic development plan, especially in view of the expiry of the millennium development goals in 2015, promoting democratic ownership of development support policies and aid to development projects and measures, through a constant commitment from all development actors, but also providing for accountability to them. it is important to stress that aid is a temporary measure, a source of inclusive and sustainable growth, but with clear and quantifiable objectives, aimed at empowering the beneficiary countries.
in writing. - i fully agree with the rapporteur's reasons for the council's position to be amended, both with regard to the european data protection supervisor and the european external action service.
in writing. − the amendment of the establishment plans of the european data protection supervisor (edps and the european external action service (eeas) is a significant staff adjustment and a welcome response to better financial management of these bodies. it is in this context that i feel confident in giving my vote in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. − following the evaluation of the measures taken by the new management and leadership of the european police college, parliament decided today to grant the discharge for the financial year 2009, on which it had postponed its decision in may following the judgment with reservations of the court of auditors. i think we can be satisfied with the measures taken by the academy in a timely manner to meet the demands made by parliament in may when it first requested discharge, which was refused.
in writing. - my vote on the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2009 is in favour. mr stavrakakis gave a detailed analysis of the measures taken by the new management and direction of the academy to deal with its shortcomings.
in writing. − i am satisfied with the work done and the result achieved and i am voting in favour of granting the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2009 and for approving the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − in today's vote, parliament has given a discharge to the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. this decision follows the first referral, which was essentially due to certain concerns expressed by the court of auditors, particularly concerning the management of the procedures for awarding contracts and the criteria used for recruiting staff. today, following the letter from the chair of the agency's board of directors dated 17 june 2011 stating that the agency has taken action to address the deficiencies of 2009, and other documents received by the agency in response to the issues raised by the resolution voted in may, we consider that the discharge is granted, albeit still lacking some of the information requested.
in writing. - i also vote in favour of this second stavrakakis report. i agree with the comments in the resolutions on the granting of discharge for the 2009 financial year to the european medicines agency. it is very important that the agency should continue to inform the discharge authority on a quarterly basis of the results of the actions requested by the discharge authority.
in writing. − i am satisfied with the work done and the result achieved and i am voting in favour of granting the director of the european medicines agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009 and for the clearance of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - as the proposal for a european parliament and council directive codifying council directive 92/23/eec of 31 march 1992 on the type approval of motor vehicles and their trailers contains inaccuracies, such as the absence of the use of appropriate adaptation markers for acronyms, expressions and introductory phrases, i am in favour of recoding the existing texts.
in writing. − access to justice is a fundamental right: our task must be to develop simpler and clearer procedures to meet the needs of european citizens and businesses. the judicial process and alternative dispute resolution methods are intended to restore legal peace between the parties to the dispute, to adequately protect a substantive subjective right and to resolve conflicts between the parties. an alternative dispute resolution, which allows the parties to avoid the traditional arbitration procedures, can certainly be a quick and inexpensive alternative, an amicable settlement mechanism that helps consumers and traders to resolve a dispute through a third party (mediator, arbitrator). we have experience in many countries where public authorities - ombudsmen and regulators - play an important role in facilitating conflict resolution, thus helping to build public trust and legal certainty. we therefore believe that legislative measures should be taken to encourage the knowledge and application of alternative dispute resolution systems in civil, commercial and family matters, especially in crossborder disputes, since judicial proceedings in this case are more complex, more expensive and usually much longer.
in writing. − the lack of a uniform development of alternative dispute resolution systems across the union is a major obstacle to their use. i fully agree with the rapporteur that we need a system covering all the territories of the european union.
in writing. − in accordance with the principle that access to justice is a fundamental right, i consider that the promotion and awareness of a body such as adr (alternative dispute resolution) by eu citizens is a key priority in order to ensure adequate safeguards for disputes between the parties concerned, as well as to ensure citizens' confidence in the internal market by stimulating its economy. in order to facilitate the application of the adr and to encourage natural and legal persons to use it more often, i am voting in favour of the proposal presented in committee.
in writing. - the house voted today on the report by mrs wallis on alternative methods of settling disputes in civil, commercial and family matters. the report responds to the consultation process launched by the european commission on the possibility of introducing a common legislative instrument on alternative dispute resolution (adr) as amicable settlement mechanisms that help consumers and traders to resolve a dispute through a third party (mediator, arbitrator). in particular, the adopted text sets out some basic requirements for adr procedures, such as the impartiality of any third party and the need to safeguard the heterogeneous nature of the procedures. finally, it emphasises the importance of alternative dispute resolution as a preventive tool for the resolution of multiple disputes and as a means of avoiding legal action through collective actions.
in writing. - we are today refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009. this decision is necessary in view of the difficulties encountered in the discharge procedures for the financial years 2007 to 2009. the purpose of parliament's right to grant discharge is to subject the implementation of the entire budget of the european union to parliamentary scrutiny, without any exceptions. in several resolutions this parliament has expressed its misgivings about the council's behaviour. and although some progress has been made in the direction of democratic accountability, notably through the receipt of a letter from the secretary-general of the council containing a number of documents relating to the discharge procedure for the financial year 2009, we cannot yet grant discharge in the absence of a number of information necessary for the decision.
in writing. - my vote on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009 for the section relating to the council is in favour. i particularly agree with the clarifications concerning parliament's powers to grant discharge.
in writing. the european parliament has voted today to reject the discharge to the council of the union: the inability to obtain the necessary documentation, the council's lack of cooperation with parliament and its refusal to recognise the latter's legitimacy as discharge authority are the main reasons for the strongly negative assessment of the expenditure of the institution which brings together the heads of state or government of the 27. parliament, under the treaties, has the right-duty to verify the expenditure of the union institutions, ensuring legitimacy and control on behalf of the citizens. in recent months there have been all kinds of pressure for an alleged breach of the honourable gentleman's agreement which mortified parliament, which had been reduced to the "spare wheel" of the other institutions. parliament is a representative institution, not a self-referential one. it is the expression of the european people and has the right to audit the accounts of the other institutions.
in writing. - mr president, directive 2000/25/ec lays down the conditions for the entry into service of tractors in relation to harmful exhaust emissions and sets increasingly ambitious targets through successive phases limiting exhaust emissions. the report concerns the application to narrow-track tractors, i.e. those used in orchards and vineyards, of specific stages within which emission limits are to be set. the size and manoeuvrability of these tractors are dictated by the arrangement of the crops, and an increase in their size or a reduction in their manoeuvrability would, in my view, risk depriving the most advanced and productive sector of european agriculture of its main mechanisation tool. i therefore agree with the contents of this report where it recognises the technical impossibility of installing engines complying in particular with stages iiib and iv of directive 2000/25/ec in narrow-track tractors, as this would result in an alteration of the operational functionality of the engines. i also welcome the rapporteur's request that the industry in this sector be given more time to adapt to the standards of new engines. finally, i hope that the directive under discussion will be adopted quickly in order to clarify for the industry concerned the mandatory requirements for their machines.
in writing. − the exhaust emission limits for agricultural and forestry tractors were amended in 2005. at the time of introduction of this amendment, the requirements were also applied in full to engines of agricultural tractors, without any specific impact assessment on the technical feasibility of such transposition. however, there were obvious difficulties in applying the measure to tractors generically called 'narrow gauge tractors' used for automated operations on land with particular characteristics, such as orchards and vineyards. the technical impossibility of installing compliant engines while preserving the operational functionality and manoeuvrability of tractors, if not corrected, would put some of the most developed and productive agricultural sectors in difficulty, further aggravating the effects of the ongoing economic crisis. in full compliance with the european policy of combating emissions reductions, which must be developed, the current peculiar economic situation in general and the sector in particular fully justifies the decision to postpone the application of the rules for three years, allowing the parallel development of the essential design and technology necessary for the application, including on low-floor machines, of after-treatment systems capable of ensuring compliance with emission limits without compromising operational requirements.
in writing. − in 2005, emission limits were applied to engines for agricultural tractors without any specific impact assessment on the technical feasibility of such transposition. that is why it is right that the commission has granted a three-year extension. my vote is in favour of the tatarella report.
in writing. − the proposal for directive 2000/25/ec on the emission limits for agricultural tractors with compression-ignition engines of between 18 kw and 560 kw provides for a pathway of gradual emission reduction in several stages by setting lower and lower limit values for the various stages. the next dates already planned are 1 january 2011 (phase iiib) and 1 january 2014 (phase iv) and will involve the installation in the engine compartment of after-treatment systems which are very bulky in relation to the size of the engine itself, making it impossible to ensure operation in terms of size and manoeuvrability for agricultural tractors classified in categories t2, c2 and t4.1 (generally referred to as 'narrow-gauge tractors'). the limited possibility of installing such systems does not guarantee the engine performance requirements as demonstrated by the various studies carried out or commissioned by the commission, with the result that compliance with the requirements of stages iiib and iv is exempted or that compliance with the requirements for narrow-track tractors is postponed for at least five years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because it sets new limits for the emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from narrow gauge agricultural and forestry tractors. this is a natural choice in view of the increasingly significant reduction in the pollutant emissions of this particular category of vehicles. in addition, in response to the needs of the major producers who are asking for more time to develop systems to achieve these objectives, i consider the commission's proposal to postpone the introduction of the last two, more restrictive, emission ceilings by three years to be balanced.
in writing. the commission has proposed a 50% derogation for vehicles produced in the eu over the last five years, due to the technological backlog which makes it impossible to comply with the mechanical changes required to move to the new phase, except at disproportionate cost, and as a consequence of the economic crisis affecting the tractor market, which has seen an annual decline of 20% since 2008. we have spoken in favour of the derogation and the rapporteur also agreed, because the impact on emissions is absolutely negligible. unfortunately, the european unions have expressed themselves in the opposite way purely on the basis of principle, without giving the slightest thought to the risk that, if this derogation were not approved, our factories would be closed and jobs would be lost. the agreement at first reading, following the trilogues, provides for a 40% derogation for tractors. it should be noted that the new cap provides for funding for farmers who reduce emissions from their farms. i hope that with this possibility many farmers will choose to buy the new low-emission agricultural machinery. even if we are not satisfied, we will vote in favour of the directive because of the extremely tight deadlines which, if not respected, would make it useless.
in writing. − while we share the ambitious exhaust emission targets set out in directive 2000/25/ec on the putting into service of tractors in relation to harmful exhaust emissions, we must not underestimate the incredible economic crisis affecting the european union. at this particular historical moment, an increase in the size or a reduction in the manoeuvrability of tractors, in application of the said directive, would deprive european agriculture of its main instrument of mechanization. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr tatarella's text, which, in addition to setting a three-year deferral on the terms of application, calls for a further technical review of the possibility of installing engines complying with stage iv on narrow gauge tractors.
in writing. - i fully agree with the objectives set by the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. this is a subject on which improvisation is not possible. the reference to limits on emissions of air pollutants, for example, shows how important it is to organise and go in the direction we have set ourselves when we have defined our policies on human health and the environment. at the same time, the approximation of legislation between member states should lead to better harmonisation of emission parameters and type-approval procedures. i therefore also welcomed the acceptance of the priorities identified in the amendment on the oem, especially the reference to economic estimates, as i believe they are essential to optimise market flexibility. the choice not to place an excessive burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, so as not to give excessive advantages to large producers, is essential in the long term in the pursuit of our general interests.
in writing. − today's vote will make it easier for european industries to adapt engines to the new exhaust emission limits imposed by the entry into force of phase iiib of directive 97/68/ec. at a particularly critical time for the industry, emissions legislation - and phase iii b in particular - is forcing manufacturers of non-road mobile machinery to redesign some or all of their products to accommodate the new engines. we had to deal with an emergency situation in order to give planning certainty to the approximately 1500 manufacturers of these machines, which are very different from each other, and which have to meet specific technical requirements in order to comply with european legislation on the subject. greater flexibility will therefore not only allow producers to transition more smoothly to the strict phase iiib limits, avoiding excessive burdens, but will also give them the possibility of diluting the necessary investment in research and development over a longer period of time, without sacrificing any of the environmental objectives of the basic directive.
in writing. - the increase in the flexibility scheme from 20% to 37.5% in the non-road mobile machinery sector is certainly a first step, and a necessary one, for a rapid response to manufacturers. i think it was important, at a time of global crisis such as the present one, which has also affected the non-road mobile machinery sector in particular, to be able to have quick response times with regard to the extension of the flexibility scheme from stage iii a to stage iii b. a complex aspect, combining the needs of a lower environmental impact and lower carbon dioxide emissions with a real understanding of the needs of producers, must be managed in the direction of concrete cooperation, including legislative, between the member states. i voted in favour of the report because, despite the difficulties arising from the demands for greater flexibility and the need for a response which does not frustrate efforts in this direction, i consider it to be a good compromise overall.
in writing. - mrs pietikäinen's report has rightly put a brake on the commission's proposal to extend the flexibility scheme too far. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - on directive 2004/26/ec and the commission proposal on the extension of the flexibility scheme to one phase of the emissions reduction programme, despite the fact that i consider that a gradual transition is needed to ensure that manufacturers can adapt more easily, taking into account the sharp drop in sales in the construction machinery sector as a result of the economic crisis, and that the commission proposal risks being a relaxation of environmental legislation and fails to reward those who have made efforts to comply with it. in view of the above, i feel that i am giving my vote in favour of the report by mrs pietikäinen.
in writing. - i believe that reducing emissions from engines of non-road mobile machinery can improve already effective community environmental legislation. legislation on provisions for engines placed on the market under a flexibility scheme should ensure a level playing field for industry and ensure that all operators comply with the rules. the regulatory framework also needs to take better account of the interrelationship between health, the environment and the economic conditions of enterprises. finally, given that the commission is preparing a revision of directive 97/68/ec on this subject, i think it is appropriate to expect it to act consistently, avoiding fragmentary and harmful rules.
in writing. the commission has proposed a 50% exemption for vehicles produced in the eu over the last five years, due to the technological backlog which makes it impossible to comply with the mechanical changes required to move to the new phase, except at disproportionate cost, and consequently to the economic crisis which has hit the market. our position was in favour of the commission's proposal because the impact on emissions is absolutely negligible. it is regrettable that the left groups and the rapporteur's position is against this merely on the grounds of principle and does not take into account the risk that, if these derogations are not approved, our factories will be closed and jobs will be lost. the final compromise reached at the trilogues resulted in a first reading agreement of 37.5% for non-road mobile machinery. even if we are not satisfied, we will vote in favour of the directive because of the extremely short time limits which, if not respected, would make it useless.
in writing. − parliament has on several occasions drawn attention to the situation of people with disabilities, recognising and protecting their rights. in line with the recent europe 2020 strategy, one of the most important objectives is to increase the employment rate among the approximately 80 million people with disabilities living in the union. at present, against an ambitious target of 75%, their employment rate is low across the eu at 30-40%. by 2050, according to eurostat, the number of people in dependent employment will double. between 2010 and 2050, the working population will decline by some 50 million people, while the number of people over 65 with disabilities will increase by 77%. in future, therefore, employment protection and safety at work will play an increasingly important role in the definition of national policies and strategies for persons with disabilities within the member states. the principle of freedom of movement is a fundamental right of the citizen. i agree with the rapporteur that the introduction of a unified european mobility card, which would allow for the mutual recognition of assistance provided to disabled people, could make an important contribution to the protection of their rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr kósa's report because it touches on a number of aspects in which i too have decided to take a personal interest, in order to promote the protection of the rights of disabled people, all the more so after having seen and experienced their needs. in general, i agree with the rapporteur's approach, which proposes the adoption of a number of concrete measures aimed at creating a sustainable society, based on an approach rooted in the defence of human rights. at the same time, however, i believe in the need for precise dates and deadlines to enable the national implementation of the conventions adopted by the united nations (the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its additional protocols) and the european union (the european disability strategy and the europe 2020 strategy). in particular, among the various key elements addressed by the report, i would like to highlight the achievements in the following areas: the production of vehicles compatible with the needs of persons with reduced mobility; the production of electronic interfaces that allow better communication for disabled people; support for families aimed at the inclusion in the education system of children and young people with disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe in the joint effort of the member states of the european union to ensure the integration of people with physical and communication disabilities into society. the social exclusion of disabled people, together with the lower employment rates for them, in my view causes serious damage to civil and human rights which should be guaranteed to all citizens without distinction. in this connection, it is necessary, on the one hand, to remove the barriers which lead to the exclusion of such individuals and, on the other hand, to adopt measures which can facilitate their integration into the labour market. protecting their rights is an important step towards better implementation of the european disability strategy, as well as towards the employment target of the europe 2020 strategy. the mobility and integration of these people is an important tool in the fight against poverty, which many of them face because of the lack of work. i am confident that all member states will be sensitive to the need to put an end to discrimination against disabled people and to promote their full integration into society.
in writing. - the number of disabled people in the european union is about 80 million, or 16% of the total population. these figures should therefore make us reflect on the importance of a policy in their favour, which covers the employment and, consequently, social aspects of all aspects of their lives. the report by mr kósa, which i have supported, has the merit of putting the problem of the employment needs of disabled people at the centre of the debate, with particular reference to the europe 2020 strategy. considering that the employment rate of the disabled is only 45% and that, at a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, unemployment for the disabled is about twice that of non-disabled people, it is clear that there is a need to initiate employment policy processes aimed at increasing the employment of people with different disabilities. it is from employment that investment in people with disabilities must be made in order to improve their processes of social cohesion and integration into the personal relational structure. we must not talk about equal opportunities, as mr kósa points out in his text, but about specific measures to promote the integration of disabled people into the workforce in the first place.
in writing. − with this report we intend to encourage the adoption of a whole range of specific measures aimed at promoting the creation of a sustainable society, based on an approach based on respect for fundamental human rights. we therefore call on all member states not only to sign and ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its additional protocols, but to develop national disability policies and strategies, in line with the european commission's european disability strategy (eds) and the europe 2020 strategy. we agree with the rapporteur that it is important to show that the mobility of people with disabilities, including access to communications as a means of spreading ideas and expressing oneself, and social integration are not two separate elements, nor two factors that complement each other, but are the two cornerstones of an approach based on respect for human rights, capable of improving equal opportunities for people with disabilities in all member states of the european union.
in writing. − in europe, the need for personalised measures for people with disabilities, including measures for different levels and characteristics of disability, remains clear. i fully agree with the rapporteur's approach to such an important subject and therefore i am voting in favour. i would like to stress that inclusion in the world of work and economic autonomy are extremely important factors for the social integration of disabled people.
in writing. - in this situation of general difficulty, certain sections of the population, which are already suffering more than others, cannot be abandoned, but must be given more help. unfortunately, disabled people still have many difficulties in accessing the labour market, which is the basis for a full and independent life. it is also necessary to promote their mobility as much as possible: the simple example of the european label is quite significant. it seems to me that this is not a very difficult task to accomplish, but the european union should be able to take the lead in putting an end to this problem once and for all. finally, i find the explicit reference to sign language as an official language of the union very important: we hope that europe will send a strong signal to the member states to adapt in this direction. the report under consideration touches on these and many other important aspects, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the integration of people with disabilities and the recognition of their rights are crucial to the creation of a sustainable society based on an approach based on respect for human rights; member states should therefore not only ratify the un conventions on the rights of persons with disabilities but also develop national disability policies and strategies to ensure equal opportunities, leveraging factors such as increased employment rates, education and training systems and the unhindered movement of people. i am pleased with the motion for a resolution on a subject of primary importance in the field of human rights, and i feel it is necessary and my duty to vote in favour of moving towards an approach based on respect for human rights and thus capable of improving equal opportunities for people with disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr kósa, who highlighted the physical and social obstacles which unfortunately still exist in many member states and which limit the lives of 80 million disabled people living in europe. however, to date, the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has not yet been ratified by all eu countries: the appeal is still lacking in 11 out of 27 member states and, even where it has been ratified, implementation is weak precisely on accessibility to space and buildings. in line with the europe 2020 strategy, one of the most important objectives is to increase the employment rate and this will require the elimination of all barriers preventing disabled people from accessing the world of work, as well as the development of national policies in line with the european commission's european disability strategy, which also provide for easy access to public and private transport. employment and social inclusion must also be more present in strategies and more envisaged in european funding. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that a european mobility card is needed, which would allow for mutual recognition of assistance provided to disabled people and guarantee that everyone can travel in an appropriate manner by any means of transport.
in writing. - mr president, an open and regulated public procurement policy is a decisive factor in making all procurement procedures more transparent, non-discriminatory and competitive, also to avoid falling into patronage and corruption. i agree with the rapporteur, mrs rühle, that the award of contracts should no longer be based solely on the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender. today, with a view to achieving many of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, priority must also be given to quality and innovation, which are also criteria offered by smes. the latter now obtain a lower percentage of public contracts than other larger companies, this because the procedures for access to contracts are too complicated and onerous. i therefore support the need for clearer rules, for greater simplification of european rules and for better access to flexible instruments not only for smes but also for ngos providing social services.
in writing. - this year marks the 40th anniversary of european procurement law: in 1971, the first directive 71/305/eec on public works contracts came into force. this, in my view, provides an opportunity to assess the successes and failures of european policy in this area. as regards the achievements, i believe that european public procurement law has made a decisive contribution to making the award procedure more transparent and to combating corruption; on the other hand, transaction and external consultancy costs have increased, due to the preponderance of unilateral legal issues. this is particularly problematic in times of economic crisis and budget cuts. i would also point out that access to public procurement for small and mediumsized enterprises is hampered by a number of difficulties, mainly bureaucratic. i therefore welcome a review of european law on public procurement. i would like to take this opportunity to draw the commission's attention to the need to consider introducing measures to reduce transaction costs for small and mediumsized enterprises and, in addition, to provide for greater simplification and flexibility of public procurement rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs rühle on the modernisation of public procurement, because i think it is appropriate to revise the subject in order to make it more relevant. initially, strict rules were needed to ensure uniform rules in the member states, based on the criteria of transparency and free competition. now that these principles have become established in the union, i share the view that it is appropriate to review the rules in order to make them more flexible and modern. the public procurement sector plays an important role in the europe 2020 strategy, which is why we need to ensure that this discipline ensures the efficient use of public funds. in particular, through appropriate use of this financial instrument, energy efficiency, innovation and environmental protection can be supported. i welcome the call for the prevention and fight against corruption to be implemented through more transparent and controlled selection procedures, in cooperation with the states. i also share the desire to make it easier for smes to enter the public procurement market, thereby also allowing small and mediumsized firms to participate in this important economic sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which parliament has drawn up in response to the european commission's green paper. public procurement can be a real engine for the european market, for the promotion of jobs and for the development of skills and innovation. i believe it is essential to continue with greater vigour the fight against the phenomenon of corruption and favouritism in public administration. the existing legislation must also be improved by simplifying the rules, in particular by using information and communication technologies and appropriate standards. this would lead to a wider participation with a corresponding reduction in costs: the optimal efficiency of public spending. i agree that the dominant criterion should not be the 'lowest price' but rather the 'most economically advantageous offer'. this would undoubtedly stimulate innovation and efforts to achieve the highest quality and value. in addition, improving access for smes to public procurement is also of central importance, as they must be allowed to participate on fairer terms, given the obstacles they face due to their small size.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the honourable member is intended to provide an analysis of european public procurement policy. i think that the report contains some very important points, such as flexibility in procedures and more transparency in the rules of implementation. the report calls on the commission to pursue the path of simplification. one aspect which i find very important is the incentive to encourage tenders which stimulate innovation. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. − in a time of worldwide budgetary constraints, public procurement policy must ensure a more efficient use of national money to boost the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. that is why i agree with the rapporteur in his choice of criteria for selecting the winners. criteria for selecting the most advantageous tender in terms of both economic and social benefits, in relation to the whole production cycle of the good or service to be guaranteed, such as for contracts in the food sector. the new provisions laid down in the green paper on public procurement must also guarantee passive consumers, such as patients in hospitals or nursing homes, access to the best quality/price health food and not simply to the cheapest products available. finally, i hope that, with the introduction of these new measures, the procurement instrument can increasingly be a driver of innovation and an incentive for businesses to propose solutions from which the whole of europe can benefit.
in writing. the subject of mr rühle's report is significant and sensitive for the business and public administration world. this year marks the 40th anniversary of european procurement law, as the text emphasizes, in particular with directive 71/305/eec. the process of modernising public procurement, including the computerization of the system, is complex and requires attention to the aspects of the protection of companies, particularly smes, the competition system and a degree of transparency of transactions to ensure a procedure that also has a legal impact. i am convinced that reconciling the different aspects of a delicate sector such as public procurement is a mechanism that requires careful attention to all the parties involved in order to guarantee their rights and obligations. we cannot, in fact, draw up a plan for the modernisation of public procurement simply because we are dazzled by the effectiveness of the words 'sustainability' and 'computerization'.
in writing. − modernising public procurement means increasing transparency and equal treatment and thus fighting corruption. i agree with the rapporteur on the objectives and the means of achieving them, and i also agree with the objections to the commission's proposal: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the public procurement directives are revised. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - public procurement, especially in a period of general economic stagnation, can certainly be a steering wheel for recovery. this report proposes a further definition of the rules and procedures for tendering and a simplification of them. a large part of the budget is devoted to small and mediumsized enterprises, for which the most simplified legislation is needed; the commission proposes in particular to facilitate the award of large contracts in batches, so as to enable smes to participate massively in a greater number of calls. i would also like to point out the need for more and more public contracts to be concluded electronically: this model involves a significant reduction in burdens and costs, as well as a significant saving in time. i think that in the final analysis this report is very well done and is going in the right direction and that is why i wanted to express my positive opinion.
in writing. - the 40 years of european contract law (on 26 july 1971 the first work contract directive 71/305/eec came into force) have allowed the legislator to gain experience which has led to great successes on the one hand and failures on the other, such as a lack of legal certainty which has led to contradictions and confusion. i therefore believe that it is essential to revise european public procurement law in order to simplify and make it more flexible, ensuring aspects such as transparency, non-discrimination and the security of competition. i therefore welcome the following motion for a resolution and i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the european rules on public procurement must be simplified to allow small and mediumsized enterprises to access tenders more easily. in addition, contracts should not necessarily be awarded to the most economically viable tender, but also to the most innovative or environmentally friendly one. finally, to simplify the procedures for awarding contracts, it is necessary to create a genuine electronic passport certifying that the tenderer complies with the relevant community rules.
in writing. - mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on making such a complex report and subject accessible to all. i welcome the following document, as it calls on the commission to follow the path of simplification and protection of the different legal practices of the various member states of the union, and to reject the introduction of new rules for contracts awarded at european level. the report also devotes a great deal of attention to the protection of smes in relation to their ability to access european contracts. finally, i would like to emphasize that the simplification of legislative procedures not only offers numerous advantages to local administrations but also helps to eliminate economic burdens. i therefore call on the commission to pursue this line of legislative clarification.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text presented by mr rühle on the modernisation of public procurement, also in the light of the forthcoming debate on the proposal for a revision of the so-called 'procurement directives'. while i am very much in favour of a general simplification of procurement rules and procedures, which would undoubtedly help to speed up the signing of contracts, i believe that more controls should be made on self-certification: while this is a means of simplifying the participation of undertakings in tenders, it is also necessary to establish a database of administrative acts and measures as proof of the requirements declared in order to combat the submission of false certificates or statements.
in writing. − the union is an area of freedom and security, where free movement means freedom to move to another member state to find work or to respond to a job offer. however, statistics show that only a small number of citizens avail themselves of this right and only 2.3% of european citizens reside in a member state other than their member state of origin. in the context of the economic crisis, the current rate of mobility is not sufficient to enhance the efficiency of the labour market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to encourage the mobility of workers. the most recent studies have shown that the exercise of the right of free movement of workers does not have adverse effects on labour markets, and therefore member states should facilitate the exercise of this right by adapting national legislation in order to remove potential direct or indirect obstacles, in particular those related to discriminatory behaviour on grounds of nationality. achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and supporting the economy in the current crisis situation requires joint and concrete action by member states to strengthen mutual trust to support workers and markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that, although the right to live and work in another eu country is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaties, the specific initiatives taken to support mobility are still not sufficient to achieve it fully. but be careful . mobility must be seen positively and as an opportunity. considers the exercise of the right of free movement of workers to be essential to boost the union's economic performance and to achieve the employment objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy; the european commitment to this end must therefore be further reaffirmed. it is necessary to support full harmonisation between national and european legislation to ensure that potential direct and indirect obstacles to mobility are removed, and the need for greater convergence with other existing policies and strategies to facilitate the movement of workers from one state to another.
in writing. - at this particular historical moment, marked by a global force which requires us to rethink the labour market model, i find mr ungureanu's proposal relevant and determined to resolve crucial issues on the role of labour mobility in the eu. i therefore voted in favour. the promotion of labour mobility must be carried out on two fronts: on the one hand, by working to break down the bureaucratic barriers which restrict a proper approach to the free market; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the report contains a number of proposals, including one on the recognition of diplomas and qualifications acquired abroad in one's own country. the reduction of a step in the bureaucratic process which often represents an obstacle to labour mobility and hence to a process of economic and social growth is an achievement which must be supported by similar initiatives in the future and in the european political and institutional context.
in writing. − the issue of labour migration within the eu has long been perceived as a potential problem due to imbalances at national level in terms of labour supply. however, labour migration has had a beneficial effect on the eu as a whole, often by rebalancing labour supply and demand. the concept of 'free movement of workers' was inserted in the treaties to ensure the completion of the single market and the strengthening of a genuine european identity, while allowing member states the right to maintain temporary obstacles for transitional periods in relation to the opening up of the labour market to new member states. the free movement of workers is a right of citizens. the exercise of this right does not have adverse effects on labour markets. the member states, together with the relevant local and regional authorities, therefore play a key role. they should cooperate to ensure that potential direct or indirect obstacles are removed, in particular those relating to discriminatory behaviour based on nationality, refusal to grant rights to family members, social security systems and other obstacles which may prevent or discourage the free movement of workers seeking work.
in writing. - the report on the promotion of worker mobility within the european union will have my vote in favour. the free movement of workers is one of the greatest achievements of the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that this right must not have a negative effect on the labour market.
in writing. the question of the mobility of workers within the european union is of particular relevance. the report stresses that little has been done to encourage this practice, which, in the rapporteur's view, is generally beneficial to everyone. i would like to disagree with this point because it is not at all true that complete freedom of movement has only positive aspects. in a period of great general expansion, flows of workers may fill in production gaps, but this is only now a thing of the past. the present is a time of enormous difficulties for all, and greater mobility cannot solve the problems, but rather exacerbates them. the mass arrival of foreign workers in areas in difficulty can, for example, create a number of problems, perhaps even leading to racism and xenophobia. it is history that teaches us this: if there is widespread prosperity, there can also be mobility, but if there is not, it is desirable that everyone stays in their own country. at the moment, in my view, the conditions for complete european mobility are not in place, and that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − given that the right to live and work in another eu country is one of the fundamental freedoms of the union, there are still too few citizens who make use of this right despite numerous initiatives to promote and support workers' mobility. however, it should be considered that the mobility of workers contributes positively to the achievement of the employment objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy and, in addition, in times of economic crisis, the occupational and geographical mobility of workers can contribute to reducing unemployment. despite the eu's legal acts and programmes to promote the free movement of workers, i believe that there are still obstacles to the full implementation of this freedom, and i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential that there should be no discrimination on the labour market against citizens from other eu countries, including those from countries that joined the union only in 2004. any restrictions must be removed by the end of this year, as they are counterproductive and contrary to the community values of free movement, non-discrimination, solidarity and equal rights. in this sense, the european commission should start infringement proceedings against governments which do not comply with these rules as soon as possible.
in writing. the report considers that the low mobility of workers between member states constitutes a constraint on the functioning of the internal market and therefore presents and promotes a comprehensive framework of migrant workers' rights with a view to the practical implementation of the principle of free movement. we are opposed to the report because its implementation would entail considerable costs for the member states' budgets in terms of training, learning, language support, health and education for migrant workers and their families. in addition, it is believed that workers from countries where the cost of living is lower may create situations of unfair competition with workers from countries where there is a different standard of living. for example, a bricklayer company moving from romania to italy to work will settle for 35%-40% less than local companies, creating a distortion of the market. the free and full movement of workers between member states will only be possible when the cost of living and working is uniform throughout the union.
in writing. - mr president, the transposition of the services directive has been the most complex and lengthiest process ever implemented at european level, both in terms of its complexity and its scope: the services sector accounts for more than 40% of community gdp. the main provision of this directive concerns the establishment of single points of sale throughout the community, but its implementation is still far from being complete and efficient. i therefore stress the importance of the implementation of fully operational one-stop shops in the territory and share the wish that information be available everywhere, including in english. i also agree that it would be appropriate to complete a quantitative study of the impact of the directive on both economic growth and employment before proceeding with the revision of the directive. i hope that any revision of the services directive will be aimed primarily at removing the regulatory and administrative obstacles which still exist and which, in my view, are responsible for the slowdown in the free movement of services within the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the main aspects to be taken into account in the current transposition of the services directive into national legislation. the overall potential of the common market in services has not yet been fully exploited and the correct implementation of this directive is undoubtedly the essential condition for the completion of the internal market. however, it is also necessary to ensure a consistent implementation of the various legislative acts of central importance to the activities of services, such as the new regulation on european standardisation for which i am the rapporteur, which will deal, among other things, with the application of standards to the services sector. i would like to make it clear, however, that the timely transposition of the directive must not prejudice the possibility of safeguarding national characteristics, particularly those relating to the entrepreneurial activity of smes. in my view, the commission should assess whether the services directive could have a negative impact on smes in certain sectors - i am thinking for example of smes in the italian seaside industry - and propose measures to mitigate this impact and ensure that the specific characteristics of certain occupational categories are taken into account in the application of the directive.
in writing. − increasing and improving the services sector, which today accounts for two thirds of gdp and employment in the eu, is a commitment to be pursued, as intra-eu trade in the sector accounts for only one fifth of the total. the report by mr handzlik, for which i voted in favour, stresses the importance of implementing the peer review process provided for in the services directive adopted in 2006. the priority underlying the improvement of the mutual evaluation process is the full transposition of the services directive for all member states and a proper approach to relations between states in the subject matter of the report. once this obstacle has been overcome, it is appropriate to focus on the implementation of the mutual evaluation process based on the principles of cooperation and dialogue. it is clear, however, that this process must make its objectives clear and tangible if it is to be considered a virtuous evaluation tool that will promote and increase trade in the sector within the european union.
in writing. − report on the mutual evaluation process under the services directive the functioning of the single market in services is a fundamental prerequisite for generating growth, employment and innovation in europe and for maintaining europe's competitive role in the world. i agree with the rapporteur that mutual evaluation should be extended to other areas, but in a balanced way and in line with the experience of recent years.
in writing. − agreeing on the importance of the services directive adopted in 2006 as an essential tool for the establishment of a fully functioning single market for services, and considering the usefulness and relevance of peer review in view of the results, i agree with the idea of proposing to extend the use of the services directive to other sectors and i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. mr president, i would like to express my strong opposition to this report, not so much because of the specific subject dealt with in the text, namely the instrument of mutual evaluation on which, despite the delays and inconsistencies in the process, it is possible to draw some positive elements, but because of the commission's attitude to such a complex issue. unfortunately, the report deals with only a marginal and unimportant aspect of the services directive, failing to address the serious problems it is creating, such as the lack of consumer protection, the lack of autonomy left to local authorities and the questioning of those small productive activities on which the economy of entire families has been based for generations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr handzlik's text on the transposition of the services directive, which is without doubt the most difficult and complex transposition process ever undertaken in europe. the main aspect of the directive concerns the creation of one-stop shops throughout the community, but the objective is still far from being achieved, especially if the obstacles still remaining in the various national systems are not overcome.
in writing. − i voted for this report because effective global economic governance would make it possible to minimise the negative effects of globalisation, such as rising inequality and the destruction of the environment. in particular, i support the idea of reconsidering the use of ‘special drawing rights’ (sdrs) as a possible replacement for the dollar as the world’s reserve currency. this measure could be a starting point in helping to stabilise the global financial system. the international monetary fund should explore further allocation, as well as broader use, of sdrs, in particular for the purpose of enhancing the multilateral exchange rate system. this text also calls on the commission to design a comprehensive mechanism, largely based on and strongly interlinked with world trade organization regulations, to prevent the use of trade as a foreign-policy tool in a way contrary to internationally recognised democratic values as reflected in the charter of the united nations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i would like to commend the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mr hökmark. the current economic crisis has prompted major economic powers, including the european union, to rethink the governance model of the global economy, necessitating a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies based on economic fundamentals. only a multilateral governance of the world economy and trade can prevent further economic crises and minimize their negative impacts. i am convinced that the eu must play a leading role in this context, supporting the process of reform of global economic governance, intervening in a unified way in international economic affairs, including through stronger external representation. i believe that the union, acting in a coordinated manner, can, on the one hand, relaunch international economic and commercial cooperation, including the bric countries (brazil, russia, india and china) and, on the other hand, make a decisive contribution to the reform of the imf and the world bank, extending their institutional coordination action at world level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hökmark report on global economic governance because it deals in a comprehensive way with all the areas of the international economic, financial, fiscal and monetary policy sphere of the current situation. global imbalances are a major threat to stability. the report provides excellent guidance in terms of improvement actions that would be useful to take to improve the functioning of the international monetary fund, the g20 and the world trade organisation in the face of current and future challenges. europe needs action to strengthen economic governance and the single market in order to be a valuable partner in dialogue with other global players. it is emphasised that in a global economic environment of open markets in constant exchange, it is all the more necessary to achieve high shared social and environmental standards, and the european union can act as a global forerunner in this regard. i therefore believe that this is an important contribution to the work that parliament is doing on the economic strengthening of europe in the global context, following the adoption of the so-called '6-pack' on european governance relating to the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to review and improve the mechanisms of governance at global level through a strategy of multilateral cooperation, especially in view of the serious instability that is characterising our economic system today. global imbalances seriously jeopardise the financial and economic stability of all countries already severely affected by the recent economic and financial crises. in this connection, i believe it is essential to adopt a common approach at community level with regard to monetary policy, international trade and public finances. sustainable development and fair trade make a significant contribution to strong and balanced growth, as called for in the lisbon treaty. improving governance mechanisms is instrumental in achieving these objectives and aims to avoid imbalances in which different economies are unable to produce wealth. europe must therefore, in my view, adopt a coherent approach based on standard setting and information exchange aimed at creating better governance mechanisms for the benefit of the whole community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr hökmark's report because i believe that the proposals contained in the text are in the direction of further strengthening the european union in the world economic and financial institutions. the eu accounts for 50% of world gdp and therefore the role of european economic institutions in the international context needs to be strengthened. the period of crisis we are living through and the exposure to the attacks of speculation which have afflicted and continue to afflict world markets in a context of a global economy, require us to make choices aimed at strengthening the role of world economic institutions. the report's proposals are aimed at greater coordination between actors in political and economic institutions such as the imf and the g20 in order to make decisions on monetary policy, monetary agreements and tax administration more effective. a reform of global economic governance is a proposal consistent with the eu's cooperative role and the needs of the current historical moment.
in writing. − global economic imbalances pose a potential threat to the financial and macroeconomic stability of the major european economies. the current economic and financial crisis has shown that capital flows resulting from global imbalances require a more responsible monetary policy and strong financial regulation and supervision. we therefore support this report because it recognises the need for policy makers around the world to continue to work on solutions for reforming global financial governance, in order to help rebalance the world economy and avoid another crisis. the reform of global governance will need to ensure that markets are integrated into an organic institutional framework that allows them to function properly; the creation of a favourable environment for long-term investment must be the main objective. the european union is called upon to play a leading role in global economic reform to make international institutions more legitimate, transparent and accountable. we believe that the european union can speak with one voice and we therefore ask for its seat in the imf and the world bank.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr hokmark's report. the world needs policymakers to put in place solutions for global financial governance reform quickly to help rebalance the world economy and avoid another crisis. the reform must start with markets that are integrated into an organic institutional framework.
in writing. - it is undeniable that a global economy requires global economic governance and this report draws some important lines. first, there is a need for greater international cooperation and the so-called 'emerging powers' must also take up their responsibilities: it is unthinkable that there are rules that apply only to europe, while elsewhere it is the "far west". i am referring, for example, to unanimous respect for the working conditions of individuals, because we can no longer tolerate that in different countries these standards are constantly trampled upon. i would also like to point out a very important aspect of this report, namely the call for a global financial transaction tax: it is only in this case, that is to say, when applied universally, that this tax could make sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report is therefore a good starting point and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − despite the development of the world economy in recent decades, which has led to an increase in wealth, lifting millions of people out of poverty, the number of people living in poverty is still intolerably high. this is the result of social and economic inequalities between countries, which create an environment of unsustainable imbalances in the development of the world economy. in this context, effective global economic governance is needed to minimise the negative impacts and to correct the adverse effects of globalisation.
in writing. - the resolution by mr hökmark on global economic governance was voted in the house today. parliament approved its contribution to the reform of global economic governance in the run-up to the g20. the resolution calls for a reorganization of the imf, more effective regulation of global finance and strict controls on possible subterfuge, and stresses the need to correct the existing imbalances in the world economy in order to avoid further turbulence, something the g20 has so far found difficult to do. it also called for greater democratic participation in the decisions of the imf and the world bank and for parliamentary involvement in their decision-making processes. it also calls on all these financial institutions to coordinate their work more closely.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it makes an excellent contribution to the reform of global economic governance in the run-up to the g20 in cannes. the international monetary fund must be reorganized into an organization which is also political. the global financial system must be regulated with strict and effective controls, giving priority to correcting the existing imbalances in the world economy, so as to avoid further turbulence, something which the g20 has had serious difficulties in doing so far.
in writing. − the global economic crisis, originating in the financial sector, has led to high levels of indebtedness in key policy actors such as the united states, japan and the european union. the weaknesses in the economic system have exposed the shortcomings of the lack of coordinated financial regulation and supervision, thus aggravating the sovereign debt crisis. at this point, as i have already said in the hokmark report, which i voted in favour of, the international monetary and financial system must be reformed, with the creation of common rules on global economic governance to give back to the operators and investors in the sector the guarantees and certainties that are no longer there.
in writing. in europe, 5% of the female population are now so-called 'single mothers'. the economic and financial crisis has affected the entire european population, but women have been particularly affected. moreover, recent studies have shown that the impact has been even more severe for the vast majority of single mothers at the beginning of their careers. the problem of single mothers cannot be ignored: the high unemployment rate in these countries has a significant impact on the education and care of dependent children. in fact, with limited resources, children have less chance of succeeding in their school careers and, consequently, of being competitive in the labour market. i therefore share the rapporteur's concerns and her determination to tackle the issue. the inequalities faced by single mothers in europe should be tackled through concrete actions such as promoting and investing in research in the field, including by using the recently established european institute for gender equality. as soon as the results of the research are available, i believe that a dialogue should be initiated between the member states in order to share best practices in implementing european policies to solve the problems encountered.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that more attention should be paid to the situation of single mothers by investing in and promoting research in this field. at present, 5% of the female population are single mothers, who are now a neglected but increasingly significant demographic category in all advanced and industrialized countries, often living in vulnerable conditions, with all the consequences this can have on their children. unfortunately, these women in particular also have statistically more difficult access to education than other mothers and are therefore subject to higher unemployment, lower wages and low-quality jobs. i therefore support the need to respond appropriately to the new reality that has emerged by engaging in a dialogue with other member states to share and learn best practices in implementing policies aimed at reducing the risk of economic insecurity that single mothers face in the labour market. it is therefore desirable to introduce new provisions to improve the employment rate of the latter.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 5% of the european population are in the position, by necessity or choice, of being single mothers. the report highlights the socioeconomic difficulties of mothers (and children) and calls on the commission to work with member states which do not have such resources to provide support for this category. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. - we support this report because we share the intention to encourage member states to tackle the issue of single mothers by investing in and promoting research in this area. to this end, member states could enhance their cooperation with the recently established european institute for gender equality in vilnius. once the results of the research carried out are available, member states should engage in a permanent dialogue to share and learn best practices in policy implementation and best solutions. we believe that some examples could be useful and transferable to all member states. national policies should be promoted which provide indirect support, such as food purchases, or which can provide tax credits for single parents, as is the case in austria, belgium, the netherlands and the united kingdom. single mothers and their children should also be able to benefit from health care benefits to compensate for the absence of one of the parents. the creation of a european-wide incentive for those member states which provide free health care to mothers and children living on incomes below the national average would be a step in the right direction.
in writing. - a difficult situation, that of single mothers in europe, which we must address immediately through a series of actions which the member states must undertake in the most coordinated way possible. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - given the heterogeneity of the phenomenon of single mothers, and therefore the many disparate issues that affect each mother differently, it is extremely difficult to identify a pressure group that can support the interests of the whole category of single mothers. more importantly, the precarious ability of single mothers to provide education or care for their children is also highlighted, given the high unemployment rate among single mothers. the possibility of relying on limited resources alone does not guarantee a stable livelihood to the mother. it is for these important reasons that, in addition to congratulating the rapporteur, i am voting in favour of the report, stressing the importance of encouraging the member states to tackle the issue of single mothers through investment and research in this field.
in writing. - there is a need for effective improvement in the law on organised crime. international criminal networks remain extremely active and it is urgent that cooperation and coordination be stepped up, also in order to bring the regulatory frameworks in the member states closer together. my vote is in favor.
in writing. - it is undeniable that organised crime is also now global. strong and coordinated action is therefore needed by all the member states of the european union to put an end to a phenomenon which has serious repercussions for the whole community. in fact, in addition to more or less visible criminal activities, criminal organizations can attack the economy of a society at its core and force honest people to suffer unfair competition that drives them out of the market. it is with a pinch of pride that we can say that italy can be a good example for europe to follow in this respect at least: in fact, in the last three years, thanks to the intense work of our minister of the interior, maroni, excellent results have been achieved: in the last year alone, more than 9,000 mobsters were arrested, including 32 super criminals. more than 4000 assets worth over eur 4 billion were also seized. it is true that italy suffers perhaps more than others from the mafia phenomenon but it has put in place the necessary tools to try to combat it. this report takes up and calls for the use of many of the measures already in force in our country and that is why i have decided to support it.
in writing. − i voted for this text because it clearly stresses the need for the eu to adopt an ambitious position at the 4th high-level forum on aid effectiveness. the forum is a key moment and is expected to map out future commitments aimed at making development aid more successful and to help build up a new international aid architecture in order to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015. unfortunately, the previous high-level conferences failed to produce the necessary political pressure or a legally-binding framework. for this reason the eu must send to busan its higher-level representatives. as we know, development aid is not in itself enough to eradicate poverty and should address its causes, rather than its symptoms. the report indeed calls on the eu to reaffirm that aid should be regarded as a temporary measure aimed at fostering self-sustainable growth in developing countries, rather than as a long-term solution.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the preda report. i fully agree with the rapporteur's insistence on aid effectiveness. aid should be examined and assessed on the basis of its actual contribution to the achievement of development objectives and not only in terms of inputs.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis (which i hope will find a positive solution) shows the inadequacy of the whole process of european integration, from the treaties to the euro. it also shows the growing distance between the citizens who vote and the institutions - including the european parliament - which should represent them, but which instead, more and more often, take decisions that are far from and in conflict with the will of the people. one thing is crucial: the crisis cannot and must not be used to take away sovereignty and powers from the states and their citizens and transfer them to the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are discussing is typical of the situation that has developed in europe in recent months: the two companies are, on the one hand, a primary activity company, such as the steel company, and, on the other hand, a company particularly loaded with technological content, now oriented to producing for network activities. i believe that this is an important problem and that it must be tackled with determination, but it cannot be limited to the necessary and indispensable and indispensable help to the people involved in these downsizing processes. the real issue is how to defend productive activities, manufacturing and the most innovative ones, in a europe in crisis. research and innovation must therefore be at the centre of our attention. there are sectors that are too mature and therefore lost, destined for other parts of the world, which have become competitive again simply because investments in innovation were made in time and with determination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that job creation is certainly one of the main measures to meet the need to revive the european union's economy. the negative figures recorded by the 27 countries, as also mentioned by the rapporteur herself, the uncertainty of the financial outlook, the high number of poor people mentioned by the commissioner in his speech, make the path uncertain. i think that perhaps the target of 75 percent of the employed in the 20-64 age group by 2020 is a much more than ambitious target. the commitment may need to be realistically reviewed in the light of the dramatic evidence of the financial crisis. i believe that if you set yourself hyperbolic targets, it is easy to fail to identify the instruments needed to achieve them, and the lisbon 2010 budget should make us think about this. i therefore share the rapporteur's conviction that the commitments announced by the commission in its communication of last november are acceptable and that they can be improved with the help of all. in particular, i believe that the creation of a flexible and secure market is a priority. in this connection, it is essential to strengthen the commitment to the definition of flexible contractual provisions, which are able to take account of social and territorial differences but above all to protect the worker from precariousness; introducing new instruments to promote active labour market policies, including measures to empower intermediaries; modernise the education and training sector to bring qualifications in line with market demand and review safety systems to make them more efficient and cost-neutral, particularly with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. finally, measures for market inclusiveness should be taken to ensure access for women, young people and disadvantaged groups and the reintegration of those workers who leave the labour market.
madam president, commissioner, mrs bastos' excellent report is part of a commitment we all made together on the europe 2020 strategy. we have committed ourselves to having, within a few years, 75 per cent of the workforce in the 20 to 64 age bracket. we are in the midst of unemployment, unemployment which has destroyed jobs, and particularly very high unemployment among young people. two forecasts are driving us, as mrs bastos says, to change our shoulder gun. firstly, a strong renewal of jobs which will be created, on the one hand, thanks to the exit from the crisis and, on the other hand, with the departure of many age groups to retirement. this renewal of jobs requires adaptation of employees to new conditions and to new competitiveness of enterprises. secondly, this change in jobs is accompanied by an increase in the level of qualifications. this is practically 15% of low-skilled jobs that will disappear and 15% of high-skilled jobs that will appear. so we have to get the whole workforce moving. they're already in business. the european social fund is there to support this dynamic. these are dynamic appropriations, commissioner. and it is in this capacity that i ask you not to impose on the esf a double burden of good management by the member states. you can imagine this link with the management of the member states on land-use planning funds, not on the esf, because the esf is designed to support the employee and to support the competitiveness of enterprises. that is the only way europe will get away with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in recent years there has been a widespread idea that i believe is not only wrong but also profoundly dangerous: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, traces of this idea are present in the commission's communication, because when it is assumed that collective bargaining is being decentralised, thus making national bargaining obsolete, this results in an objective damage not only to the weaker people, who will no longer have the protection they had before, but it even introduces a form of social dumping between those with one condition and those with another and alters the mechanisms of competition in the same companies. the same applies when it is assumed that we are helping to bring about a contract which becomes permanent, but starting from very low conditions which again concern the rights of individuals. i believe that the reference point cannot be this but must be what europe wrote in lisbon as early as 2000: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that three questions are important in order to promote the transition from training to work: the relationship between theory and practice in teaching and learning; the integration of humanities and technical and scientific culture and the articulation of the tertiary system of technical education and training also in the non-academic field, with links that may cross continuing training. in this direction, teachers must be upgraded, training partnerships between enterprises, education centres and research centres must be encouraged, and apprenticeships in higher education must also be encouraged. we have a dual market for young people today, which is getting worse, and a flexibility which has not suited the social buffers; but alongside that, the new welfare is called continuing education and reintegration and support opportunities. i think this should be more like a new social right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the honourable member on her choice of topics. why new skills? the evolution of the world of work certainly creates the need to change and acquire different skills: but what about those that represent our heritage and our traditions? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive. we must go further. what about those trades that once were the backbone of the economy in certain areas? these areas, such as the mountains and foothills, are no longer in existence, having been abandoned in favour of cities. a solution that would promote employment and hence employment could be the recovery of certain trades and traditions, while at the same time favouring the disadvantaged areas. to ensure that certain activities continue, young people must be the main protagonists of initiatives, traditions and trades that are no longer used in the areas concerned. training aimed at the integration of young people into small businesses in these areas would have a twofold value: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe in the form of grants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that compromises are made not by looking downwards but by looking upwards and improving the living and health conditions, not only of women but also of children, of whom perhaps a little has been said in this debate. i appreciated the intellectual honesty and the grace with which the polish minister wanted to describe the council's difficulties: i really hope that a balanced compromise can be found. i think, however, that we did well to raise the bar a little more than the commission's draft demands, which were really modest. i want to make what seems to me a fundamental objection. it would seem that europe has not yet understood that if the balance between work and motherhood is not improved, millions of european women will remain outside the labour market or will not be able to stay there. through a different conciliation, europe is rejuvenated, poverty of families and children is reduced, productivity and the community of the member states are raised, unless the only welfare reform proposal and cost improvement is to extend the retirement age for women, leading to a paradox: the problem is that these women will never reach retirement age, because they will leave the workforce, as is often the case in many countries, including my own, because they cannot reconcile family and work during their productive and fertile lives. i believe that if european economic thinking does not revise its conceptual basis and overcome a 'rationalist' approach, growth will be neither intelligent, nor inclusive, nor sustainable, because women will not be there.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support the question put to the council by the femm committee, following the council's failure to react to the adoption of the maternity leave directive, which was approved by this parliament on 20 october 2010. in order to achieve a 75% female employment rate as set out in the europe 2020 strategy and to promote work-life balance, the measures introduced by the revision of the maternity leave directive, such as the extension of the duration of leave to 20 weeks with full pay, and the introduction of two weeks of fully paid paternity leave, need to be adopted. i note with regret that the present polish presidency has failed to open the negotiating table on the revision of this directive and therefore we will all together press the next danish presidency to make this directive a priority and to unblock the current deadlock, although the difficulties of the member states facing a serious economic and financial crisis today are obvious and we therefore understand the difficulties they may have in implementing such an extended maternity leave. i support maternity leave and therefore i support maternity as life, because life, because the future is represented by children, our children, who will constitute the new european union. so we must support maternity leave for the future of the european union as a whole. i do not want to use strong words, but i believe that this report should be supported precisely to ensure greater security, to give the european union greater momentum, so that it can recover from this serious economic crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs estrela for her work. i do not quite understand the concerns expressed by many member states about the cost of extending maternity leave and paying 100% of the salary. in my view, the economic crisis cannot be used as an excuse to wipe out fundamental rights. as a mother, i know that it is essential for a woman to be able to take maternity leave, also because, for cultural reasons which are difficult to eradicate and because of the lack of adequate care services, women are responsible for more than 80% of the care of the elderly and the disabled, as well as the care of their own children, with inevitable consequences in terms of employment and career. in addition, we should not underestimate the growing phenomenon of single mothers, which we discussed yesterday and today, representing 85% of single-parent families; this raises further concerns because only 69% of single mothers are in the labour market and, on average, 18% of single mothers work part-time, making single mothers more at risk of poverty and unemployment. i would like to conclude by saying that, in my view, maternity leave is at the heart of the idea of reconciling family and working life and that it is therefore a minimum objective which cannot be undermined. i would add, finally, that, of course, leave should not be restricted to women but that fathers should also be able to take advantage of this opportunity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to and appreciated the heartfelt tone with which the council representative has introduced this debate. i must say, however, that the real problems, alas, remain beyond the scope of attention and respect for parliament. the failure to implement the directive has serious consequences for the health of mothers and children, for the respect of fundamental human rights, which have been built up over a long period of time, and, in my view, also has negative consequences for employment. i do not see how we can achieve the europe 2020 objectives if we do not have the means to increase female employment, starting with the maternity and paternity directive. the demographic decline, which is often cited as one of the problems of the future of europe, cannot be tackled unless there are concrete measures to help families who decide to have children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we think that the crisis will last forever and that is why we do not defend women and their motherhood today? do we think that in a crisis there are no priorities to be chosen and that everything is indistinct? if we believe in the objectives we have set out, then we must also indicate the priority policies in times of crisis. this, i think, is one of them.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time of crisis, and this crisis is not only economic but also a crisis of confidence, a crisis of confidence which affects all citizens, especially the younger ones, who therefore have greater difficulty in having the courage and the will to build their own future. to combat this crisis, the european union has set itself a challenge - a challenge to itself: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's a strategy which, therefore, must really counter this lack of confidence and help us to get back on the path to a better and more prosperous future. that is why parliament has placed the financing of this strategy at the heart of the 2012 budget, starting with the first of its priorities, a more and better employed europe, a europe with quality employment, a europe that aims at innovation and research. that is why, as a parliament, we have asked for and are asking for more resources on three key fundamental programmes, the real drivers of the 2020 strategy: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. today, therefore, we must be consistent, follow up our intentions, send a positive signal and then start to build this path in concrete terms. not to fund an anti-crisis strategy because the time is crisis would be a serious, heavy, difficult to explain signal. today the citizens expect us to be consistent and serious. but they 're not the only ones watching . the markets are also particularly attentive this year to our decisions and to our ability to take the decisions needed to get back on track in the right way and at the right time. that is why it is particularly difficult to give positive signals, and in this direction it would be excellent not only to have a budget which actually starts to build the 2020 strategy, but it would also be really important to do so in a climate of great institutional collaboration. it is to give a good signal that this parliament has felt it was giving great credibility to the commission's estimates. our commission is certainly working as best it can at this difficult time, which is why parliament has found its estimates of the need for payments to be reliable. we have another emergency. the european union is not a political force, but a political force, and it is not a political force, but a political force. there is therefore a need to react to the crisis, to have a renewed leadership on the international scene. we call for the use of the flexibility instrument for these two fundamental objectives. so it will be important not only to overcome these two challenges, to give confidence, to prove credibility, to prove trustworthiness to the citizens and to the other institutions that are watching us, but i think the challenge this year is also something else: the key is to be able to do it in a transparent way. our budgetary reading is not tactical or negotiating: it is precisely the budget that this parliament considers essential for 2012, because it would also be important to be able to reach a common position this year in good time, quickly, in order to give the idea, the capacity and the image of a europe that knows how to find itself at the right time.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, i would like to begin by thanking mr balzani and mr fernandes for the excellent work they have done and all the other members for the spirit of cooperation they have shown this year. the commission's work on the draft budget was excellent, but parliament's reading of the budget showed that it did not fully agree with the horizontal cuts made by the council, and parliament therefore carried over commitments and payments, with some exceptions, to the draft budget. i would like to recall that 2012 is the sixth year of the financial perspective, as this must be fully reflected in the considerations on the level of payments, as many programmes and actions are nearing completion. parliament intends today to show full responsibility at european level, which is closely linked to the crisis situation in europe. we have decided to request the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for two headings only, by a choice based on sound arguments. firstly, the situation of heading 4, which has seen a series of unforeseen and unforeseeable events occurring requiring a significant non-insurable financial commitment with the narrow margin of 2012. then there is heading 1a, which sees an increase in our proposal of eur 30.7 million to be used to boost the competitiveness of the production system and to finance the priority policies of this parliament which are at the heart of the 2020 strategy. my group believes that in times of crisis such as the present one the european budget must be a stimulus instrument capable of generating real european added value. i hope that the council will understand our approach and be open to a negotiation based on cooperation and aimed at drawing up a realistic and intelligent joint budget, a budget for the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is at a time of crisis such as this that europe must give concrete answers and be a real added value, beyond a budgetary increase which may be excessive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. frontex is another significant aspect: the council had been wrong to give it new powers without providing it with adequate resources. on this point and on the whole question of immigration and border control, parliament has certainly shown itself to be more responsible. the report mentions parliament's travel expenses as one of the costs to be cut. there 's no point in looking around . the real savings would have been made by eliminating strasbourg. the treaties can be amended and in these difficult circumstances the question of the seat of parliament should finally be reviewed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, heading 4 is structurally underfunded in relation to the eu's strategic commitments and interests, and this has forced us to make painful choices in order to safeguard our priorities, in particular the resources for palestine, which are obviously needed, especially in the light of the choices made by the us congress. hence the cuts to the cfsp budget, which are not generic linear cuts but political cuts on specific points, which therefore do not affect other operations. first, afghanistan: the people of afghanistan. it is a painful cut, but at the same time we must know that, despite the good results of our mission, in that scenario the eu is a complementary player subordinate to the strategy of others, which, moreover, is not having much success. emergency measures the problem of special representatives arises and therefore it is a cut that makes sense. preparatory measures the council rejects article 51 (5) (c) of the financial regulation which gives the european parliament a limited role in these measures, in line with the madrid agreements. from here, the inevitable cut. it is not the european parliament that has chosen this line of austerity: the council cannot be surprised by its consequences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr balzani and mr fernandes, and the shadow rapporteur, mr la via, on the excellent work they have done on a 2012 budget which is a success for this parliament, despite the difficulties in keeping increases to a minimum, given the austerity conditions which characterize this period. for the first time, the 2012 budget focused its objectives and priorities on youth, small and medium-sized enterprises, research and innovation. as rapporteur for the budget of the femm committee, i am pleased that the funding for the daphne programme, which supports measures to combat violence against women, has been brought back to the levels proposed by the european commission. the institute for gender equality has maintained the level of funding provided for in the draft budget and so i congratulate it again on the work it has done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the committee on budgets, on the advice of the committee on agriculture, has decided to increase the budget in relation to the table presented to us by the european commission for heading 2, 'agriculture and the environment'. the cap's budgetary loss is currently 12.6% in real terms. this cut makes it unrealistic to achieve such ambitious targets as those proposed in the legislative package on the new cap after 2013, as presented to us a few days ago by commissioner cioloş. the increase we have asked for in the committee on budgets of 200 million relates to funds which would be allocated to fruit and vegetable producers to deal with future crises such as the one we all remember well from last year's killer bacterium. i hope that this morning's vote proves us right. i would like to mention briefly two other items on which i would like to stress that an increase in the community contribution is very much needed. i am referring to food aid for the poor, a priority for my country, for which the discussion of a new legal basis is in another impasse in the council, and to the amendment we have requested for the increase in expenditure on the management of migratory flows, of which italy is one of the first countries concerned and beneficiaries, given its geographical borders at the end of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, listening to the exchange of views, it is clear to me that positions remain different, therefore we have to reconcile the position and we will proceed with the november conciliation. i have the same impression as mr hartong – that of déjà vu – because we are still struggling, as rightly indicated by mr färm, with the same prejudices and the same stereotypes that are simply not true. according to one of them, ‘everybody is cutting and you are growing’. this is not true. on several occasions i have presented statistics showing that the national budgets of the 27 – with very few exceptions – are growing between 2009 and 2012. they are growing, despite efforts to save and reshuffle, but nominally they are growing. the european budget is the same combination of restraint and respect for legal obligations. we still have phasing-in in agriculture. this year we have unpaid research contracts. we should be serious about our pledges to the arab world, which involves additional expenditure, and we should respect the logic of a budget which is very well known. but at the end of a financial perspective the payments in cohesion are moving, and we are still eur 18.8 billion less – as set out in the draft – than the forecasts coming from the same member states to brussels. so this is the first stereotype, and i will talk briefly about the second, because it has been already responded to by many speakers. it is intellectually dishonest to see a european budget which is equivalent to 2% of public expenditure as one of the root causes of a fiscal and financial crisis in europe. if we now try to increase co-financing for the countries which are in real trouble (i.e. the six countries, including greece) and reduce the finances on their side, this means that structural funds (meaning investment) with a multiplier effect could be conducive to growth and jobs and should be the solution to the problem, and not the problem itself. the roots of the crisis are elsewhere.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? i was very interested in the discussion that just took place on parliament's priorities, on the approach to negotiating the eu budget for 2012. i can honestly say that many of the things you said encouraged me. i have the impression that we are all beginning to understand the need to move away from the traditional way of adopting the budget, which - as i remember - has been more or less the same for a dozen years: the council presented its draft, parliament raised all the budget lines in a similar way, and we met somewhere along the way. everyone was happy with it. times have changed. we have a crisis, and no one in this room can deny it. we need to look at the eu budget in a different way. the eu budget - as the commissioner has pointed out - must and is growing. it's not a budget that's shrinking. we need to discuss at this point the scale of growth that is acceptable to all. we can't just keep following the same pattern. we have to prioritize in a crisis. we have to identify what the union really needs most at this moment, what we have to finance, do exactly the same work that all the member states are doing. they have their own budget, they have limited resources, and they have to choose what they really need to finance in such a situation, and determine what the necessary level of resources is for such expenditure. we must remember that times are uncertain. we don't know what's gonna happen in a few months. i am therefore very concerned about the tendency in the european parliament to use all the margins, even the flexibility instruments, at this point. if something unexpected happens next year, we won't have any extra funds to cover it. i think that the practice which has unfortunately become established during this financial perspective, namely that we renegotiate the multiannual financial framework virtually every year, is not good. that's not what the exercise we did years ago was about. we agreed on maximum spending levels and everyone took it very seriously. the funds were allocated according to different criteria. we cannot deny everything every year and open negotiations on the financial perspective every time. in this situation, we don't actually have to sit down to these negotiations right now, because they don't matter much anyway. we need to think about how to secure the union and the union budget for the future, especially in uncertain times. we also need to rebuild the credibility of the european institutions. we cannot allow long, completely incomprehensible discussions to take place between the two institutions. everyone will be out there explaining that they are acting in the public interest, but nobody really knows what the problem is. the union must now regain its credibility. the eu institutions must show that they are able to reach an agreement within the timeframe and work out a solution that is good for all. we must not forget one very important thing: the crisis we are facing and the debate we will have today in the european council is about the excessive debt in the european union. this means that in previous years the european union has been spending too much. the member states have spent too much money. this also shows that pouring money on every problem that arises is not a good solution. you have to sit down and think about whether the money you're putting in is actually helping solve a particular problem. this is the moment we're facing right now. we all need to sit down, with a sense of priorities. the council does not deny the priorities of the european union. all he's asking is that we sit down and have a reasonable discussion about what, with the limited resources that we have, we can actually fund. and i'm going to finish with one more important thing. we often talk about wanting to help individual member states, to give them extra resources to stimulate their economies. remember, these funds come from their budgets. they have to develop these extra resources first, and then they have to get them back, and that's sometimes very difficult. i know from the budget of my country that every additional billion spent on the eu budget is a decision to potentially reduce spending on other purposes or to reduce spending on co-financing. so we need to find a balance between what we leave in the national budgets to co-finance and what we put into the eu budget to help these countries.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all my colleagues, commissioner lewandowski and minister dominik, for this very interesting debate, which brings out a very important factor. there is a great deal of agreement in parliament on this reading of the budget, and i believe that this agreement is due to a fact which has perhaps been little noticed: parliament is not only asking for but also proposing painful cuts. some colleagues have mentioned it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore a proposal which has been drawn up with effort and with difficulty and, i would like to stress, not to finance the priorities of parliament but to finance the priorities of the union, because the europe 2020 strategy is not the priority of parliament but the priority of the european union. and we are here today to fund it, asking to use the flexibility instrument for 240 million. we are talking about a total budget of 150 billion, within the framework of the financial perspective set in 2006, before the 2008 crisis, before the europe 2020 strategy and even before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. today, we are calling for the use of the flexibility instrument for 240 million to start financing those priorities of the union that we have put on the table as a crisis-fighting instrument. i hope, therefore, that our common vision of the priorities which you, mr dominik, have repeatedly invoked will be more fully defined in the conciliation. it's hard to talk about priorities unless you want to take that very important step, which is to turn them from written priorities into constructed, real, tangible priorities. 2020 is tomorrow: we cannot wait for a new financial framework to start financing it and, as many colleagues have said, not only do citizens wait to see what we do but so do the markets. so i really hope that in the conciliation we will find this solidity that parliament has given, together as the budgetary authority, and i hope we will do it quickly.
a delegation from the parliaments of the european economic area - iceland, liechtenstein and norway - and from the european free trade association are also present in the gallery, as are observers from the swiss federal assembly. this delegation is headed by mr hansen, who chairs the joint parliamentary committee on the european economic area. they are here with us to take part in the 37th meeting of the joint parliamentary committee, which is being held today and tomorrow. we wish them the greatest success in their work this week, which is of great importance for the democratic parliamentary control of the european economic area. and let me take advantage of the presence of norwegian delegates here to remind you once again in a very special way - because, as president buzek said in the plenary on 14 september, we cannot have norwegian friends among us without doing so - of the victims of the terrible attack in norway last summer and to express once again to their families and to the norwegian government our sorrow, our support and our affection, which was with you in those difficult moments. good luck with your work.
we are continuing the debate on the report by ingeborg gräßle and crescenzio rivellini on the financial rules applicable to the annual budget.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all my colleagues, the staff, but in particular my colleague mrs gräßle and my assistant, mr davide ruffo, for the work we have done. trust, support and progress are the three objectives of effective implementation, management and reporting of the eu budgetary funds. the economic and legal basis of the financial regulation is now finding new strength, with the prospect of financial changes that want to innovate europe by promoting and improving infrastructure investments, guarantees and financial methodologies. we must make the best use of the resources we have. we must invest in the sectors most suited to fostering growth and advancing europe, a europe that is more integrated, more competitive, with sufficient resources to pursue common policies and to play a leading role on the international scene. the first commitment today must be to encourage public investment, private investors and the governments of the individual member states to take more courageous action from the economic and financial point of view and, in this spirit of mutual cooperation, to face any opposition arising from democratic confrontation. in this sense, the issuance of new financial instruments is a key element of the regulation, which supports the financial market and system of the union and the member states. in an economic context of serious crisis, characterized by a globalised and bipolar system which is increasingly seeing the political and economic binary of the united states and china assert itself, europe must equip itself with new financial instruments if it is not to be marginalized and penalized. the goal is this: we are also working on a new strategy for the european union, which is to be implemented in the next few years. only then can progress and a positive future be guaranteed. i therefore believe that, in order to achieve the objectives of economic and financial growth, it is essential to make it clear that we must closely monitor the effective promotion of european society. the increase in spending power and therefore the power to create wealth, if not wisely directed towards concrete ends, does not have the desired effect and produces only waste. the contraction of national budgets must therefore be met by financing from banks or guarantee institutions, in order to encourage investment in situations where, without union support, there would have been no capital increase, nor the acquisition or creation of new resources to be used in the advancement of the european production process. all this - i stress - is not to benefit banks or wealthy individuals, but to increase a spill-over effect which can thus affect all social strata. similarly, european support for potential losses from sub-optional investments is certainly perceived as a great example of support and guarantee for the citizens of the union, since we know that otherwise some large projects, for example the supply of energy resources, without public initial capital, would make no sense. the key role of project bonds is undeniable, and they are now gaining new strength with the joint decision of the epp group and the commission to start a phase of promoting private investment in infrastructure and in the energy, transport, information and communication sectors. through investment in infrastructure we can support and help the european market and the financial system of the union. without a system of solidarity based on mutual trust and the incorporation of past experience, the market cannot fully fulfil its economic function. a people who ignore their past will never know anything of their present. this principle is necessary if we are to learn from the difficulties of the past financial management and to ask ourselves what mistakes were made, what did not work, how we can do justice to the european market and the economic system that unites us and that makes us, despite the difficulties, a beacon and a support for the countries we represent today. the more you can look to the past, the more you can push into the future. we improve the research, technological and innovation sectors by supporting competitiveness and innovation projects, which are particularly efficient in providing financial guarantees, which are not provided in almost all member states, by supporting research and innovation projects where ad hoc financial systems allow loans to be granted to individual beneficiaries. as far as the reform of europe is concerned, it is in the present economic constraints that we can see a structural solution to the crisis we are facing. as long as europe's action is not more efficient and decisive, as long as the spaces between capital and investment are multiple and confusing, as long as private individuals can rely on a system, we cannot rely on a system that gives them guarantees and confidence, the opportunity to make europe a fixed point for the world economy and its citizens. after having discussed the most important and innovative aspects of financial regulation and the multiannual budgetary framework, i should like to ask a few questions about financial instruments. i have taken note of the communication published by the commission last wednesday on financial instruments. in this connection, i would ask the commissioner whether he does not think that perhaps the list under discussion is too restrictive when it lists the types of financial instruments. do you not think it would be better to consult the experts in this field, for example dg ecfin, to consider supplementing articles 130 and 131 of the financial regulation, especially with regard to risk-sharing instruments? do you not think, commissioner, that financial instruments could have a greater margin of success? what is your view of the basic instrument which is to identify financial instruments? finally, and not least, because of the problems that are being raised, i would be interested to know how the effects of the financial crisis, which inevitably affect the economic situation in the first years of implementation of the multiannual financial framework, are to be dealt with.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this draft revision of the financial regulation of the european union after the treaty of lisbon meets certain clear and precise requirements. the second is to promote the quality of investment that can stimulate competitiveness and the need to activate and strengthen common policies to ensure that europe plays an increasingly important role in investment and territorial cohesion. i also think that it responds very strongly to the need for simplification that arises from the territory and that too often sees european rules that are unable to be understood and fully implemented. public investment must increasingly serve to stimulate private investment on the one hand and to stimulate the national governments to take action with new financial instruments on the other. i would like to express particular satisfaction at the consideration given to project bonds, which can promote private investment in infrastructure, energy, research and innovation, opening up a new frontier of investment by common policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind this house briefly that the bureau gave its approval to the european delegation to iran's visit to tehran subject to certain conditions. i would point out that just the other day the iranian minister for relations with the european union officially stated that he did not accept any conditions for the visit, so we cannot comment. please have this position reviewed.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just one technical amendment which is necessary to enable us to begin the vote: for the items 05 04 05 02 and 05 08 06 the amendments budg1207 and budg1206, as reported in the minutes, do not include the changes to the amounts. they should be understood and adopted in such a way as to restore the amounts in the draft budget, which means eur +2,5 and +3 million respectively in commitment and payment appropriations for heading 05 04 05 02: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on amendment no 1207. and eur +1 million in commitment and payment appropriations for 05 08 06: amendment no 1206 is adopted. on the other hand, the observations following certain budget lines of the agencies will have to be technically adapted to make them consistent with the final amounts adopted.
member of the commission. − mr president, we agree, and once again i would like to express my appreciation of the dedication of the rapporteurs, ms grässle and mr rivellini, for their work on this very complex, technically difficult dossier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget sets a few clear and important objectives in the context of the europe 2020 strategy: i thank the rapporteurs for that. it is essential to focus on investment and not just on prudent budgetary management. the alternative would be to passively witness the speculative philosophy that characterizes our time. we can no longer afford to pursue individual interests but must finally represent a single, compact and confrontational subject. i welcome the commitments made on the pilot projects and preparatory actions under heading 2, and the fact that the funding of the integrated maritime policy does not come at the expense of other initiatives and programmes in the fisheries sector. this will enable us to implement new policies for better management of marine resources, through research and a widespread exchange of data on fish stocks, imposing new designs that can be used in the adriatic area as best practices in other marine areas. i'll close with a little note: i would like to see more effort made in the future discussions on the cfp, and particularly on the fisheries fund, to control fishing, which is at the heart of the fight against illegal fishing but also the basis for the rebuilding of stocks. consider yourself the common good fish.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i did not see what we were talking about on the boards, i just wanted to ask you to understand why it was not on the boards or on our displays. i see the information just came in, so the problem is solved. i apologize and thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this budget document certainly contains some very important elements: the central role of the mediterranean is certainly one of them. the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean region, and the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean region. all this is done through criteria of priority which give a further chance of development and competitiveness to the many young migrants in those territories; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the first report on the mafia and organised crime was adopted yesterday: the fact that the commission has taken this additional step sends an important signal from parliament in the right direction of a decisive response to these very serious phenomena.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's proposal is a courageous one and is going in the right direction. despite the austerity demanded by the member states and the national budget deficits, it is the duty of the european union to do everything possible to ensure growth and employment in europe. i fully agree with mr balzani and mr fernandes and that is why i voted in favour of the resolution. the crisis must be addressed not only through austerity measures but also through investment in research and cohesion policy. it is right to curb administrative expenditure and parliament has given a strong and clear signal in this respect. but i hope that at the next meeting of the conciliation committee common sense will prevail: the council must open its eyes and realise that cuts to competitiveness and cohesion will only further undermine our economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too want to join in thanking mr balzani and mr fernandes, not for the sake of practice but for the sake of conviction, for the work they have done, a complex work but one which i think we can all be pleased with. the proposal we have approved today, with a convincing vote in favour, is certainly an effective proposal, and one which is suited to two factors, namely, rigour and development. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the budget, which will be presented to the council in the autumn. this is the new challenge which europe is taking up again with this budget, and i think it is a challenge which is appropriate to the times and which is in keeping with the needs of the european citizens today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pressure currently being exerted to respect the european stability pact by reducing the budgets of the member states, so as to keep sovereign debt and public deficits within the permitted limits, makes the reform we are discussing in this house today particularly important. the debate on this subject has often been the subject of heated discussions in the council as well. as a recast proposal, no substantial changes are made to the current directive, except for the amendments to article 4 of the directive, which raise, although probably not relevant in the context of a recast proposal, a relevant issue in the context of the ongoing debate on strengthening the internal market and consolidating public finances. we voted in favour of the measure, mr president, also because the amendments proposed by the rapporteur risked calling into question the very assumptions of the directive itself, by effectively reintroducing the taxation of dividends, as well as addressing the question of the need for greater coordination, if not harmonisation, in the field of corporate taxation, in order to avoid the benefits of the internal market being used for tax planning, with negative consequences for public finances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, and in particular mr rivellini, for the work they have done on this important draft revision of the financial regulation of the european union after the treaty of lisbon. we voted in favour: it is no coincidence that the measure passed by a large majority. i think i should emphasize, among the reasons which led to a broadly favourable vote, the key points of this measure, which focused on the quality of investment, the ability to stimulate competitiveness, but above all on the activation and strengthening of common policies to ensure european leadership. this new regulation makes europe more a protagonist in the development projects that are taking place on the ground, also through a simplification of rules and regulations, a simplification that is strongly demanded of us, especially by local authorities, which often have great difficulty in accessing the opportunities made available by the european union.
mr president, the historical moment and the economic difficulties europe is currently facing require more planning to support employment, in line with the europe 2020 objectives. it should be remembered that among the dramatic figures that european economies are reporting, with unemployment rates close to 10%, as it doubles in terms of youth unemployment, the tourism sector is among the few industrial sectors that have withstood the global crisis. for this reason, as we also stressed in our own-initiative report, a genuine mapping of skills in the tourism sector, which will help to define new skills for workers with prospects for targeted professional development, needs to be drawn up together with the social partners and the industry in the sector. we must concentrate on vocational training and qualifications, through strong investment in new professionals who are more inclined to an entrepreneurial and managerial approach, in order to attract new tourist flows from emerging countries. to this end, national measures must be supplemented by resources from the european social fund for vocational training. this is accompanied by an increasing effort to ensure quality of work in a sector which relies on seasonal work and, unfortunately, too much undeclared work. i voted in favour of the report for these reasons too.
mr president, i too welcome the vote on this report, although on some points we could probably have gone a little further. the reflection on the regionalization and localization of the employment contract can not ignore an important work which, on the contrary, unifies the conditions of workers' rights: the more the possibility of developing autonomy in the territory, in the firms and in the sectors, with the aim of creating productivity and creating conditions for competitiveness, the greater will be the need to create the conditions for certain fundamental rights to be able to find a supranational, even european, integration. that is why i am still puzzled by the possibility that this initiative might also be taken to deal with an important issue, such as the question of whether there can be a european policy on fundamental rights. otherwise, the alternative is that we will have a phase, which i think is negative, in which there will be rich workers and poor workers, but doing the same work.
mr president, the economic crisis that has been affecting the labour markets since 2008 has led to the loss of 5.6 million jobs. for these reasons, it is necessary to strengthen human capital, through updating skills, and to create a better synergy between education, training and work, as well as to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises and the integration of young people into the world of work. there is one point, however, which puzzles me, and my group has tabled two amendments which have been rejected by the house, and for that reason i remain puzzled and have not agreed with this report. the point concerns the single contract as presented by the commission. as presented, this contract does not provide adequate legal guarantees, rights in the field of working conditions, social security and protection of workers under all contractual forms. i think the question of the right to work and the right to social security is a very important one.
mr president, europe must not only try to make up for its mistakes but also start investing in its future. we set ourselves an ambitious goal: 75% of the employed between 20 and 64 years of age by 2020. but just as it is unthinkable that public spending alone should be the engine of new investment for growth, there will be no new employment if private investment in innovative sectors and the recruitment of young people is not encouraged, if more training is not provided, better training, if budgetary, tax, social security and welfare policies are not made homogeneous in the union and if the labour market is not made more flexible, making bargaining more coherent and closer to the needs of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, while respecting fundamental rights. the vote i gave in favour of the bastos report is an act of confidence in the community institutions and in their ability, even if it is late, to bring the world's largest economy out of the crisis, without distorting the european social model, but at the same time unleashing the unexpressed energies of the productive system, which finds in the rigidity of administrative regulations, the labour market and internal dumping, which weighs on the single market, a brake on its own potential and therefore on the growth of the european economy, which is indispensable, also to get out of the sovereign debt crisis.
mr president, as mrs bastos' excellent report has pointed out, europe is called upon to adopt decisive proposals to modernise the labour market, thus improving its flexibility and security in the first place. we must ensure decent working conditions for all, improve existing legislation and provide workers and businesses with the right incentives to adapt to new market requirements. but effective policies require improved capacity to anticipate and anticipate future needs. today more than ever, high-quality education and training are essential requirements for providing the new skills demanded by the market. if we are to get back on track after this serious economic crisis, become more competitive, achieve higher levels of growth and employment, we must exploit our full potential and focus on young people. they are our future and we cannot afford to neglect or hold back their professional development.
mr president, the economic, financial and social crisis we are going through has clearly highlighted several weaknesses in the european economic and social model. i think that one of the most alarming figures of the present situation is the loss of almost six million jobs over the last three years, and that figure is bound to increase as this situation continues unless we can react quickly and effectively. the text of mrs bastos stresses that to make real progress we need better synergy between education, training and the labour market, together with policies to ensure a better match between supply and demand in this market. for these reasons, mr president, i voted in favour.
mr president, the unemployment rate across europe has remained stable at very high levels, which shows that europe as a whole has not yet emerged from the crisis that has gripped it since 2008. in the euro area, the unemployment rate recorded by eurostat stood at 9.7% in october; in italy, according to the national agency istat, the unemployment rate is stable at 8.7% and the increase in youth unemployment, our future, rises even to 27.6% with an increase of 2.4 points compared to november 2009 and with peaks of 40% in some regions such as those of southern italy. the last alarming fact is that the least growth we are seeing in employment is in the male component alone. the women are once again left behind. the manoeuvres that each member state is trying to put in place to overcome this prolonged period of crisis are reflected in the fact that the labour market is being held back and this alarming situation requires strong responses, which the agenda proposed by the commission provides us with, with effective and quickly implementable solutions. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with today's vote on the european parliament's position on the 2012 draft budget. in my role as shadow rapporteur for the european people's party, i thank all my colleagues, and in particular the rapporteurs, for the excellent work they have done in recent months. i believe that we have shown our full responsibility today by adopting a budget which is both intelligent and realistic, a budget which takes due account of the seriousness of the present crisis, but which is at the same time aware that it can be the instrument through which europe can boost growth and help it to emerge from the crisis. a budget that funds research and innovation, that supports young people and small and mediumsized enterprises, with a focus on selective but important increases in spending, also in other strategic areas, such as neighbourhood policy and the management of migration flows. in other words, we have adopted a european budget for the european people.
in writing. the text on the 2012 budget which we voted on today is certainly a good starting point for the conciliation which we will have to have with the council shortly. in this connection, it would be desirable if the council did not propose only linear cuts, as it has done so far, but instead indicated the negative priorities on which it could act decisively. there are several budget lines for non-core actions which could be addressed at this time. it is true, for example, that the european administrative and bureaucratic apparatus is certainly much less developed and heavy than the national central apparatus, but this is by no means a valid reason for increasing its expenditure, as has happened today for some lines of parliament. i am pleased, however, that adequate funds have been reintroduced for smes and frontex, and that a substantial allocation has been appropriately approved to support agricultural producers, who have been severely affected by the summer crisis caused by the proliferation of the killer bacterium escherichia coli.
in writing. − parliament has once again demonstrated its commitment to achieving a community budget in 2012 that will stimulate growth, innovation and employment in the european union. this must also be done by supporting the development of democracy in the countries neighbouring the union. among the various decisions that have been taken, i would like to mention the decision to add eur 250 million to the emergency funds for the european agri-food sector. this additional availability will be used to prevent possible future crises such as last year's killer bacterium. finally, part of these funds will be used to compensate farmers for the negative financial consequences of the crisis.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in view of the considerable investments and the importance of cooperation at european level, and not in order to achieve synergies through the heterogeneity of know-how in the field of satellite navigation, i am voting in favour of the draft resolution on cooperation with the kingdom of norway.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in view of the considerable investments and the importance of cooperation at european level, and not in order to achieve synergies through the heterogeneity of know-how in the field of satellite navigation, i am voting in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. - i am in favour of the revision of the council directive on the common system of taxation. the now unsustainable levels of sovereign debt of eu states require a common approach at european level to mitigate the effects of the current financial crisis. in recent years we have seen a decline in the average tax rate applicable to eu companies (from 44% to 23.2%), coupled with the introduction of eu rules to combat double taxation for eu companies. this is leading to an inevitable race-to-the-bottom of tax rates, to long-term non-taxation, and even to double non-taxation. i would also stress the problems that arise when multinational companies make profits through subsidiaries located outside the eu (tax havens), which attract capital by providing for zero or limited taxation. the state is losing out to multinational companies which no longer take on a proportionate share of the financing of public needs. i therefore support the introduction of a minimum tax rate of 25% applicable in the inbound state and the introduction of measures to combat double non-taxation. this directive will inevitably reduce the sovereign debt of member states and mitigate the economic disparities caused by the different tax regimes of eu and non-eu countries.
in writing. − the steady erosion of decision-making autonomy goes hand in hand with the progressive facilitation of capital movements in the eu. the problem, however, remains the different tax regimes in the member states. i am in favour of the giegold report because it promotes the harmonization and approximation of tax legislation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the high, now unsustainable, levels of sovereign debt and public deficits are driving nations to the need to rebalance their budgets. the continuing presumption of complete independence of national legislators in the field of taxation is a factor which hinders the possibility of mitigating the problem. in this general context, the existence of tax advantages for certain companies at european level, as a result of the growing social disparities which characterize all european societies, allows capital and profits to be transferred easily and profitably. a thorough review of the council directive on taxation is therefore needed to reduce the disparities in national tax systems and to solve the problems of double taxation or double non-taxation by means of stricter provisions to prevent abuse.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr graessle and mr rivellini on the excellent work they have done in adopting the financial rules applicable to the annual budget of the union. i believe that the current european system is efficient precisely because it has good monitoring rules for the implementation, management and reporting of eu resources. these are very technical rules which have shown the need to be amended and updated over the years, thanks also to the recent developments in the architecture and functioning of the union introduced by the treaty of lisbon. i think, and i conclude, that the text voted on today is a very good result in this respect.
in writing. the report on the financial regulation applicable to the annual budget of the union, which i am co-rapporteur with mr gräßle, lays down an economic and legal basis for the financial regulation, which is now finding new strength, with the prospect of financial changes that will innovate europe by promoting and improving infrastructure investments, guarantees and financial methodologies. we must spend the resources we have most profitably, investing in the areas that will best promote growth and advance europe: a more integrated, more competitive europe, with sufficient resources to pursue common policies and to play a leading role on the international scene. the first commitment today must be to encourage public investors, private investors and the governments of the individual member states to take more courageous action from the economic and financial point of view and, in this action of mutual cooperation, to face any opposition, the result of democratic confrontation. in this sense, the issuance of new financial instruments is a key element of the regulation that underpins the financial market and system of the union and the member states.
in writing. - mr president, the economic crisis we are experiencing since 2008 has caused the loss of 5.6 million jobs, and the number of unemployed in europe currently corresponds to 9.5% of the active population, with undoubtedly negative repercussions on growth and the social security system of the member states. the new skills and employment agenda is part of the europe 2020 strategy to help achieve an employment rate of 75% of the population aged 20-64. the difficulties still faced by workers and smes are worrying. the union, however, has the capacity to meet this challenge and increase the employment rate, but concrete measures and coordinated responses by member states are needed to promote sustainable growth. the flexibility and security of markets must be promoted, and investment in greater synergy between education, training and employment must be made, on the one hand, by preventing the drop-out rate and encouraging vocational training, and on the other hand, by creating specific measures for young people to integrate them into the labour market even before the end of their training.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the european economic and social model: in 2008, when the first effects of the crisis began to show on the labour market, europe lost 5.6 million jobs. the number of unemployed in the european union is currently about 23 million, or 9.5% of the working population. this is a reality that has a negative impact on both growth and european social security systems. equally worrying are the difficulties faced by some employers in finding and selecting staff, particularly for highly qualified jobs. therefore, also in view of the prolonged negative effects of the crisis in europe, strengthening human capital through skills upgrading becomes a priority. member states have made an ambitious commitment to reach an employment rate of 75% by 2020. to achieve this ambitious objective, i believe that the following are essential: reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises in order to encourage job creation; enhancing the mutual recognition of qualifications of eu and third-country nationals; the strengthening of cooperation between the worlds of education and business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that strengthening vocational skills and participation in the labour market is an indispensable tool for a europe which wants to continue on its path towards economic, financial and social recovery. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the european commission sets the union as an objective to achieve an employment rate of 75% for people aged 20-64, thus ensuring the sustainability of social protection systems and a significant consolidation of public finances in eu countries. in this sense, i believe that, alongside the approach defined by the european executive and broadly supporting the rapporteur's position, there is further room for improvement and i therefore vote in favour of a report which aims to further support the implementation of specific measures to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce, reduce structural unemployment, improve the functioning of the labour market, which is at the same time inclusive, and improve the quality and conditions of work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs bastos' report because it deals with the subject of unemployment in a pragmatic and proactive way, a problem which we cannot afford to ignore. the economic crisis has affected the labour market in a significant way, with the share of people aged 20-64 in employment falling to 69% and the share of unemployed rising to 10%. in the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reaching 75% of the employed in the 20-64 age group within the next eight years, which means having an employment growth rate of slightly above 1%. to achieve this, the report we have just voted on emphasizes four points which i too recognize as being fundamental to growth in employment and in the economy as a whole: improving the functioning of the labour market; a highly skilled workforce; improved quality of working conditions; the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for the creation of a european employment agency. the proposed agenda is ambitious and that is why it is our task, both at european and national level, to work towards its implementation.
in writing. - i am in favour of this important report because, from reading the text, it is clear that the assessments and the respective estimates are considered to be reliable. the points have been carefully and precisely worked out without ever deviating from the key objectives we have set ourselves: improved labour market functioning, an increasingly skilled workforce, better quality working conditions and stronger policies that can effectively promote new job creation. the reference to the status of women in the entrepreneurial market, for example, shows how we must take advantage of this moment of underrepresentation and unemployment to reform our legislation by drawing on our past and present experience. i therefore trust that the european parliament will continue to play a leading role in coordinating the social policies of the member states. if this report is an important achievement, the will and the constant commitment of our internal systems are an even more important achievement in order to complete the europe 2020 strategy in the best possible way.
in writing. - mr president, the europe 2020 strategy's target of 75% employment for people aged 20 to 64 can only be achieved by a reshaping of vocational skills, which inevitably requires a major adaptation of the education and training system. the report by mr bastos, for which i voted in favour, highlights these aspects and above all attempts to put the issue at the heart of the specific skills in the professional field which have often been lacking in jobseekers, even in a time of crisis such as the one we are living through. on the other hand, there is a need to invest fully in the labour market, increasing the presence of women in the it sector and preparing students better to face the new employment challenges. the europe 2020 strategy can therefore be achieved by reforming and implementing a more qualified education and training system that places workers in a global and specialised market. a decrease in the unemployment rate therefore also requires a greater degree of coordination between the education, training and employment systems.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the european economic and social model. the unemployment rate in the european union is now almost 9.5% of the working population. this is a reality which has a very negative impact on growth and on european social security systems. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. only then can a period of true recovery begin. member states have made an ambitious commitment to reach an employment rate of 75% for the 20-64 age group by 2020. achieving these objectives will require intensified labour market reforms and specific incentives for individuals and firms to invest in training. the commission will continue to support the development of the social dialogue and the social dialogue in the member states. in order to develop effective employment, education and training policies, it will be necessary to improve the capacity of the member states and the european union to anticipate and anticipate the skills of the future in line with labour market needs.
in writing. - the level of unemployment achieved within the european union is a very negative factor for growth. as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, we need to focus on strengthening the synergies between education, training and work in order to stimulate employment today, but also to ensure that we are not unprepared for the employment challenges of the future. my vote is in favor.
in writing. − in recent years, a number of economic and socio-cultural factors have led to a radical change in labour markets; the report clearly identifies some key points and challenges for the future. firstly, the gap between education and training and the world of work, which is too wide at present, must be closed: the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct business of credit institutions and amending directive 76/635/eec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct business of credit institutions. the same young people, once they have been properly trained, must have full access to employment with appropriate recognition. the report also rightly emphasizes the need to preserve the manufacturing and craft sector, which is facing a slow and painful demise: in addition to often representing the excellence and traditions of a territory, it can be a real and powerful engine of development. finally, i would like to stress an important aspect concerning the elderly: i think it is very sensible that serious and coordinated volunteering programmes should be set up to make the most of a wealth of experience and knowledge which would otherwise be lost inexorably.
in writing. the report by mr bastos, which was voted in the house today, stresses that, in order to develop effective employment, education and training policies and to ensure that individuals make professional choices, it is necessary to improve the ability of the member states and the union to anticipate and anticipate the skills of the future in line with the needs of the labour market. the agenda for new skills and employment is part of the europe 2020 strategy and is the commission's contribution to the member states' objective of achieving a 75% employment rate for people aged 20-64 by 2020.
in writing. − the report aims to find solutions to increase employment in the eu by implementing appropriate employment and social policies, promoting the promotion of demand and supply of work in the context of an inclusive economy and sustainable growth, and promoting work-life balance in support of women workers. education and employment strategies should be implemented to create synergies in the dissemination of new technologies, the promotion of lifelong learning and the continuous updating of skills. particular attention should be paid to people with disabilities, who should be recognised as having access to work and employment services, so as to enable them to enjoy the 'desire for autonomy and independence'. the importance of the craft sector and its cultural and traditional identity is recognised. in italy it is a very widespread sector with qualitative excellence that has brought made in italy all over the world.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by briefly introducing the oral question we have put to the commission. it is more than a political act, it is an act of recognition that we intend to make to the european commission because it is showing great interest in the protection and promotion of the rights of children. on 15 february, commissioner reding therefore presented a communication on the european union programme for the rights of the child, a package of 11 concrete actions that the commission intends to implement in the coming years on the justice side in order to establish child-friendly justice in all 27 member states. i'll list some of the measures. first of all, the proposal for a directive on the rights of victims, which is already under discussion in the libe committee, and one of its objectives is to protect child victims in criminal proceedings. another important point concerns the protection of roma children, as well as the activation in all free states of telephone helplines for missing children and early warning mechanisms for missing children, as well as a commitment to open a kind of information desk within the european parliament and european union website dedicated to children. the following are some of the indications included in the package: it is important to take account of the extraordinary efforts which the commission and individual commissioners are making to protect the rights of children, both inside and outside the european union. i now come to the proposal for a directive on the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, for which i am rapporteur, and i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mr sippel, mr lambert, mr wikström, mr triantaphyllides and mr kirkhope, who have helped me along a path which has not always been easy. i would like to thank commissioner malmström, who was very keen to see this directive, the council, the hungarian and polish presidencies, which followed this legislative process very closely, and all the non-governmental organisations, starting with unicef, ecpat, save the children, all the main ngos that have followed us and helped us to draw up this directive. i remember . the second criminal law measure following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, after the trafficking in human beings directive, and the first legislative measure to address a specific area of criminal law, namely the protection of children against sexual exploitation, abuse and child pornography. the directive in question, among other things, takes all the indications of a resolution that was adopted by the european parliament in 2009 and takes the lanzarote convention as a reference point. some qualifying points: the definition of offences. the text defines the offences of sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, child pornography and sexual exploitation of minors. we have introduced a specific definition of child pornography, referring to the lanzarote convention. it also introduces uniform and effective criminal sanctions throughout the european union and specifies aggravating circumstances, in particular when a child is in a vulnerable situation, is otherwise able or perhaps the offence was committed by a family member or by a person who has in any case abused his position of trust and authority. then, the ban. anyone who has committed a crime and has a conviction will be banned from even volunteering with children. we have provided for the seizure and confiscation of property and proceeds of crime under this directive. much has also been done in the area of assistance to victims, to prevent the so-called double victimization, the crime of sex tourism, the crime of grooming, that is, the online harassment of minors and, lastly, as regards the online child pornography material, it is planned to remove all these illegal contents. i conclude by saying that, of course, this is never about censorship of freedom of expression and freedom of opinion: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the content of the internet is not subject to censorship.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs angelilli for this initiative. the sexual exploitation of children is certainly one of the most depraved crimes that can be committed. those who pay or exploit a child for sexual purposes must be severely punished. we also need to take action against those who go to other countries where it is easier to obtain child sex services for money, who often live in such poverty that their families are forced to sell them. the dissemination of child pornography on the internet should also be prohibited and the competent authority should be able to block websites that post such material. internet users undoubtedly encounter pornographic material on a regular basis, and it is difficult to distinguish whether the subjects are minors or not. it would be desirable to have campaigns to encourage those who come across suspected child pornography sites to report them to the competent authorities, perhaps by providing a dedicated site where the suspected page can be downloaded. it will then be for the competent judicial authority to verify whether or not the site concerned is one of those to be blocked. i am in favour of the report because this is a problem which must be tackled with seriousness and caution, in order to protect the child.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, committing sexual abuse against minors is the most unworthy and barbaric thing imaginable. beyond the crime itself, violence against a child has devastating consequences from the point of view of the development of the offended person. it is no coincidence that many adult abusers themselves have suffered trauma as young people. it is therefore right to use the utmost severity to punish this type of crime, which all too often leads to the worst possible horror when committed against people in disadvantaged conditions, such as children with disabilities, whether physical or intellectual. i would like to focus on one aspect of this report, namely the voluntary prevention and repression measures for convicted persons. among the possible solutions to be adopted is certainly chemical castration. in italy this issue has not yet been tackled but in several european countries, where it is already in force, it seems to have given satisfactory results. we must therefore proceed in this direction, although in my view, for the most serious cases, this treatment should not be voluntary but compulsory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, mr angelilli, must be immediately recognised for his excellent work. it was not easy to reach a balance on an important directive, which obviously has our broadest support. we can call the discussion of such a sensitive subject a positive one. there is no crime more abhorrent than that committed against young people and boys, because of their weakness and fragility and vulnerability: in particular, sexual offences must always be punished in a strict and rigorous manner. important are the passages on child pornography, on the possibility of blocking and, where this is not possible, deleting sites, and the reference to issues such as human trafficking, often at the hands of organized crime. we must also strengthen, commissioner malmström, the relations with local authorities, because as we know, after the reception centres, there is a transition to family homes and after that, often, these children become invisible: there's no trace of them. the individual rehabilitation pathways are positive, through an interdisciplinary approach, as someone said a while ago, to strengthen that state of well-being which must certainly be recovered in these children. positive early warning system: it is important to share this with a greater number of member states, and it is also important to stress at this time the need for ever stronger cooperation based on the confidence of the member states. the reference to confiscation is important: to take the assets of convicted felons and use them to enhance these specific realities, restoring psychological, physical and relational well-being to these kids. the directive is an important and necessary step, but there are many more steps to be taken by this parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is never appropriate to make a list of crimes: they're always obviously all hateful. but the crimes we're talking about tonight are particularly despicable. isn 't it a coincidence that one of the hardest pages in the gospel is the one where jesus says , "and if anyone causes one of these little ones to sin, it would be better for him to be thrown into the sea with a large millstone tied around his neck. rarely are the harshest words uttered by christ. there are days when a person comes home satisfied that he has done his job well: today is one of those days, because, thanks to our rapporteur, mrs angelilli, the other european institutions, the commission and the council, we are amending an important measure with measures against sex tourism, the clear definition of the offences of sexual abuse and exploitation, child pornography and aggravating circumstances; we guarantee free and appropriate psychological assistance to victims. we order the seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of these offences. we're focusing on prevention and so much, so much more. even in these days, when anti-politics seems to be triumphing, politics is giving a clear and concrete answer to the many associations and volunteers who deal with these issues on a daily basis and to the many law enforcement officers who carry out a very delicate and valuable job which, in some countries, starting with my own, italy, has reached real excellence and is an example of good practice. but today it was important to put a european strategy into practice to make the union feel close to our citizens, in a concrete way, especially in view of such dramatic problems, and we can safely and proudly say that we have done so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the sexual abuse and exploitation of children is becoming increasingly widespread in the member states of the european union. this worrying fact is also facilitated by the use of new technologies, especially the internet. such violence affects children of both sexes, although the majority of complaints are from acts against girls. i believe that the european union must have a legislative framework to condemn these serious acts and to harmonize the criminal laws of the member states. the recognition of such phenomena as grooming, the introduction of the definition of sex tourism, the development of telephone helplines promoted by the union, the blocking and removal of images from internet sites, in order to prevent children who have been abused from becoming victims in a repeated way, are measures which go in the right direction, to help combat this situation which we must face with strength and determination. i would therefore like to compliment the rapporteur, mrs roberta angelilli. finally, i believe it is essential to support the development of structures that provide assistance to victims, as well as recovery pathways for perpetrators. the role of women as the main provider of care within the family and society must be brought back to the centre of this process, including through the strengthening of legislation in force in the member states and the harmonisation of penalties.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to say thank you very much to all who took part for a most interesting and very important debate. i would like to highlight a few things, because much has been said. baroness ludford asked me about the countries that have not acceded to the hotline number 116000. in the revised universal service directive it says that the member states should have made every effort to accede to this by 25 may of this year, and still 11 countries have not done so. it also says that the member states shall inform citizens that it exists and facilitate the operation of services in order to comply with this. it is up to the member states to choose how they promote the hotline. in order to raise awareness, allow exchanges of best practices and identify practical tools, the commission is organising best practices meetings and high-level meetings with stakeholders and will continue to do so every year until all countries have made sure that it is operational. i also had a question from ms nedelcheva on the convention of the rights of the child. it is more complicated than it might seem to adhere to this, because the european union can – as the members well know – only act within the limits of the competence conferred on it by the treaties. moreover, in accordance with the articles in the actual convention of the rights of the child, the instrument is open only to state parties. for these reasons the commission does not, therefore, envisage acceding to the convention. however, the eu agenda for the rights of the child reaffirms the importance of the convention and will do everything to make sure that all eu legislation and proposals are in line with that convention. i would also like to highlight something that might be a misunderstanding; i do not wish to open the debate again but want to assure you that nobody has promoted, proposed or envisaged introducing blocking instead of deletion; that has never been an issue. what we should do – and this is very clear in the commission proposal, and i am very happy to have the huge support in this house – is ensure that member states delete at source. this is the only way to combat child pornography on line. we shall delete at source. however, we all know that with the majority of these horrible sites – and i do not know if you have seen them (there are toddlers on these sites) – there are a lot of people making huge amounts of money every time someone sees those babies being abused, and every time someone looks at it they are abused again, again and again. the majority of these sites are not hosted in the european union: that is why the commission proposes that the member states should block access to the content until it can be removed at source. in this proposal it says that member states may now do so. of course, we must also cooperate with the countries which host the majority of these sites, and we are engaged in very active negotiations, talks and collaboration with, for instance, the united states on this – they are moving forward – and also with russia and other states. having said this, i think you, ms angelilli, with the massive support and praise you have got in this plenary from the left to the right, can be very proud of what you have achieved. we can all be proud: the council, the commission, parliament and yourself, because with this we are providing good tools to prevent, to protect and to prosecute people who commit these offences. we are also sending the very important political signal that sexual abuse of children like this is not acceptable, and this is a clear message from the whole of the european union. thank you very much for a very important debate and very important work. (applause)
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i am pleased to see the consensus in this room on the need to combat sexual crimes against children. today we can say that the way to the formal adoption of this instrument at first reading is open. i am also convinced that this compromise, which has been worked out with such a large participation of the rapporteur, will allow the directive to be adopted quickly. i listened with interest to all the voices in the discussion. each one showed great concern for the needs of this special victim, the child. this situation requires our ongoing response. we must face up to emerging threats, especially as many of them are linked to the development of modern technology, such as the internet. that is why, with this directive, we are introducing measures which radically contribute to strengthening the protection of minors by covering the prosecution of new offences, including those involving the use of modern technology. as the european union, we do not want to and cannot lag behind international organisations. let this project be a very clear, readable and unambiguous signal to the citizens of the european union of how important and a priority it is for us to protect minors. in this case, the message is all the more important because we - the adults - have a special responsibility to remember those who are unable to take care of their own interests, namely, children. i would like to thank once again all those involved in this work and to express my hope and belief that the instrument - the draft directive we have discussed today - will not become a paper tiger and a copycat law, but a real instrument for improving the legal protection of children and the prosecution of related offences.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate was very long, rich and comprehensive, and i am very pleased with the participation that has been given, not only in the drafting of this text but also in the debate this afternoon. the clear objective is to suppress these phenomena in a very uncompromising way, although we have stressed - and we have been very keen on this - the importance of prevention, assistance and support for the victims, including the families of the victims, and the training of all those who can play a supporting, supporting and helpful role. i think it's also important to tell adults, parents, teachers, that we need to bridge that generation gap in technology that often takes adults away from social networks, away from the internet, and therefore away from a world that is very familiar to children. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. there should be no fear that removing child pornography could be synonymous with censorship, restricting freedom of expression or information or even that it could be a criminalisation of the internet and new forms of communication. it's not. the internet is a great resource, a great opportunity for communication and socialization: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of the internet, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. the removal therefore only concerns these very serious crimes, and therefore does not intervene in any way in terms of censorship or restriction of freedom of expression. i would also like to say a word to mrs sippel, whom i thank again for her contribution to the work. i am perhaps a little disappointed that the tables of concordance are not in the text. we had included them in a recital at the beginning and then in the directive. we know that the negotiations were very difficult and very tiring, but in my view we must be happy and satisfied with the result achieved. i would like to conclude by saying that i agree with what commissioner malmström said: maybe we could do more on the sex tourism side. it is true that more could have been done, but the directive gives the member states who want to do more the opportunity to act. at the same time, it is a rigorous, comprehensive and cutting-edge text: i am very pleased with it and i think my colleagues are pleased with it too. i would like to thank once again the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have contributed to the successful implementation of this text, commissioner malmström and of course the council, the hungarian presidency and also and above all the polish presidency.
in writing. the sexual abuse and exploitation of children, including child pornography, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, and in particular of the 'right of children to protection and care necessary for their well-being', as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the directive we are about to adopt is the first measure to be taken in a specific area of criminal law: the protection of children against sexual exploitation, abuse and child pornography. after years of active struggle against the phenomenon of paedophilia, i can only welcome this new directive which acts on three fronts: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police office. in addition, innovative measures are introduced to combat all forms of abuse: introduction of the grooming offence , definition of the sex tourism offence within the union; rules of injunction to avoid the risk of repeated offences; confiscation and seizure of property arising from child pornography offences. finally, i believe that it is a major step forward in the fight against abuse to give member states the power to take the necessary measures to ensure that websites containing or disseminating child pornography are immediately deleted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ombudsman's office plays a very important socio-political role, although i realise that this does not exempt it from answering the legitimate questions of its colleagues about the size of the budget, but rather it emphasises even more the productivity of its work. the ombudsman's office, together with solvit and the committee on petitions, constitutes the european network for the protection of citizens' rights. in fact, through the various procedures, which are explained in a very positive way in the resolution, the ombudsman seeks to give fullness to that fundamental principle of democracy which is representation, by closing the gaps in communication, by removing the opacity and making the system more transparent. in this report for the year 2010, we observe, as my colleagues have pointed out, an overall decrease in the number of applications - which does not diminish the sense of civic participation of citizens - but at the same time an increase in the number of complaints against the executive commission. i am pleased with the positive approach of commissioner kroes and the content of his speech, because i think that the commission should draw some guidance from this debate today and from the work of the citizens' protection network. i am convinced of the good faith, commitment and goodwill shown by commissioner kroes and i would therefore like to see a clear message from this: the commission is overburdened with bureaucracy and over-structured: perhaps someone confuses the authority of the function with authoritarianism. this compromises the healthy relationship with the citizens. i would therefore like to thank the ombudsman for his work, the commissioner and the rapporteur, mrs iotova, for their excellent work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of us have said during this period: "europe is in danger". fortunately, thanks to the efforts made yesterday by governments and community institutions, we have averted the risk that europe could become the danger to global stability. i agree with you, mr president of the commission, that the crisis we are living through calls for innovations in institutional engineering, too, which will enable us to present ourselves to the world in a responsible and united manner. but let me use the platform of the european parliament today, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, to appeal to the ruling class of my country: not just to politicians but to all those who have important responsibilities in the economy and civil society. the commitments italy made yesterday deserve an approach that is able to go beyond what divides us and to look at the needs of our people and the contribution we are called upon to make to make europe competitive and the guardian of our well-being. the role which the italian parliament will play in the coming days will be decisive in this respect, not only for italy but also for europe, as a confirmation of the profound interdependence which binds the economies of our countries. i hope, i hope, i wish, i ask with all my heart that in my country this awareness will echo the results achieved yesterday in brussels. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i have addressed myself to all italians, i also consider those with an italian surname to be part of the group. the appeal also applies to mr tarabella.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most frequent words in these conclusions are 'invitation' and 'commitment', and among them is mr berlusconi's commitment to tackle the north-south divide in four months. it is clear, then, that invitations and commitments do not make for a common economic policy, nor do they make for institutions which do not exist, such as the eurosummit. the proposals for regulations under article 136, announced by mr barroso, show that the existing institutions, instead of being invited, can make laws, and we say: "do it, do it right now". we will not allow any reform of the treaty until all the possibilities of the existing treaty have been exploited and we will not accept a limited mandate which has not been formulated by parliament and which does not include co-decision on economic policy and joint responsibility for eurobonds, because without democracy, growth and solidarity, the union of stability remains a chimera.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of tonight's summit is very worrying. two constants are of particular importance: the first is that it seeks stability without growth. the second is the marginalization of parliament. stability without growth is the objective also proposed in the italian government's document. we are facing an unlikely reduction in debt and spending to the detriment of the weakest and without defined policies for development and the creation of new wealth. governments and banks are being helped, but without action to protect citizens affected by crises, even that opportunity becomes objectively unsustainable and incapable of creating consensus. i want to make it clear that for many of us, any revision of the treaty is unacceptable unless it radically changes these approaches: it is not possible to regard parliament as a place and members as residual subjects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the highest european institutions have welcomed the italian proposals to deal with the crisis, considering them a strong and credible commitment. today's statements by president van rompuy and president barroso are a positive acknowledgement of the italian government's efforts to find concrete solutions for economic and structural recovery, towards balanced budgets and the revival of development and employment. i think europe is aware of the sacrifices it is asking of italy and all the member states. it is therefore positive and welcome that the commission has today renewed its commitment to supporting these austerity measures by the member states, by proposing a community economic governance plan aimed at boosting growth in the euro area, including specific proposals on employment, and by boosting the use of eurobonds and the financial transaction tax.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the devastating flooding that has occurred in italy between liguria and tuscany. seven victims have been found so far; six people are still missing, hundreds are displaced and roads and bridges have been destroyed. i would like this parliament to speak out in the appropriate places, within its competence, to provide the necessary aid to these heavily damaged areas.
mr president, i shall read out quickly an amendment of a technical nature which has already been agreed with the other groups. in paragraph 5, 'calls on the eu member states to strictly abide by the eu common position on arms exports; urges the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, to urge member states to fully implement, and comply with, the requirements of the common position.'
mr president, the eu ombudsman has a central role in making the european institutions more open and transparent and should defend the right of citizens to access documents, as stated in the report we voted on. the reality is that, according to a recent survey commissioned by the european parliament and the european ombudsman, citizens know very little about what their rights are. the results of the eurobarometer survey show that the right to move and reside freely within the union is among the most well-known and most important according to most of the respondents, while the right to lodge a complaint with the european ombudsman is only the third most well-known right among eu citizens. in addition, 85% of those who took part said they did not feel informed about the charter of fundamental rights. so, in congratulating myself on the re-election in january 2010 of nikiforos diamandouros to the post of european ombudsman and in congratulating him on the over 36,000 treaties and the completion of over 3,800 inquiries in 15 years of this institution's existence, we voted in favour of the measure, although we wondered whether providing citizens with more information than their rights, which is what they want and ask us, would not be as effective as resolving their complaints after the fact.
mr president, i am very pleased and very happy with the outcome of the vote on this directive for several reasons. according to recent studies, between 10% and 20% of european children are at risk of being victims of childhood sexual abuse and the scale of the problem, as well as its cross-border nature, require timely action by the european union. i am glad that the agreement which was voted in this house, and therefore adopted immediately by the council, will replace the current legislation which is now obsolete, since it dates back to 2004, and that this will happen very soon, since there is already an agreement at first reading with the council. i welcome the inclusion in this directive of new concepts and offences, introduced for the first time in community legislation: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: the various databases in the member states which collect the information needed to monitor the phenomenon of sexual abuse and exploitation of children are of paramount importance and must be able to cooperate with each other with ever greater speed and precision, so that these crimes, which are increasingly organized, find no escape or bureaucratic slowness that could cause the action to be repeated. zero tolerance for the following: that is the watchword of this measure which i am proud to have voted for.
mr president, i voted in favour of what mr angelilli has presented because it deals with a problem which, as a mother and a grandmother, concerns me deeply. protecting children from sexual exploitation, abuse and the disgusting world of child pornography means protecting our children, our grandchildren and, consequently, protecting the most vulnerable. increased prevention, harsher prosecution of perpetrators and better protection of children: these are the key points of the document voted on today. no doubt the path is difficult. i am thinking in particular of the dissemination of child pornography on the internet, which can only be combated by close cooperation between member states, police authorities and providers.
mr president, first of all, a fact which explains the seriousness of the situation: christians are three quarters of the people persecuted and discriminated against for their faith in the world. this was recently reminded of by the pope at the summit in rome on 12 september, where representatives of the osce also met to discuss the issue of hate crimes against christians. in the resolution we talk about egypt, where the situation is at high risk, because there is a strong christian community, 10% of the population, and syria, where the un commissioner has spoken of possible real crimes against humanity. but i am reminded that these crimes are not only taking place in africa, but also in various parts of asia. i am referring to the recent persecutions in the philippines, india and pakistan. crimes against christians are on the rise: the commission has also been informed that the council has decided to suspend the application of the protocol on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraudulent or deceptive practices by the community institutions. this is not permitted to many christians in the world.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report analyses the work of the european ombudsman, using figures and statistics. the commission has also set itself the objective of continuing to improve the organ in question. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2010 annual report of the european ombudsman reminds us of one of the most important responsibilities of this office, namely to ensure that citizens of the union are aware of their rights and of the means to exercise them. too often citizens perceive the eu and its activities as something distant and inaccessible, but all our efforts must be directed towards changing this view and increasing, instead, a concrete awareness of the eu's closeness to its citizens. the role of the european ombudsman is therefore of fundamental importance. the ombudsman was conceived as a point of contact between european citizens and the eu administration, to ensure, among other things, a continuous dialogue with claimants and civil society, the promotion of a culture of service in the administrations of the eu institutions and the development of fairer and more transparent decision-making procedures.
in writing. − in the 2010 annual report of the european ombudsman, we welcomed the suggestions made for a new working strategy 2009-2014. in particular, we appreciated the objective, repeatedly emphasised, of listening to stakeholders to obtain feedback from complainants, broadening and deepening contacts with the eu institutions and civil society and identifying best practices. the aim is therefore to improve the quality and effectiveness of assistance to european citizens in cases of 'bad administration'. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we believe that this new working strategy can have a positive effect on the administrative culture of the eu institutions, helping to optimise administrative practices and focusing on systemic problems. improving communication with the public will be essential. timely and useful information should be provided on a regular basis to all interested parties.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that, despite the considerable progress made in the last period, further efforts are being made to further reduce the time required to complete surveys in order to better respond to citizens' needs. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fundamental importance of the role of the european ombudsman, marked by the important achievements of the last 15 years since its establishment, i am voting in favour of the new strategy on the european ombudsman to ensure that eu citizens enjoy their rights to the full.
in writing. − a year ago the institution of the european ombudsman celebrated its 15th anniversary. over the years, the institution has dealt with over 36 000 complaints and completed more than 3 800 investigations into alleged maladministration. the result of examining so many complaints is that the institution has accumulated a considerable body of experience which gives the ombudsman a clear view of trends in maladministration, problems and structural deficiencies in the administrations of the eu institutions. this enables it to ensure compensation, to help improve the quality of european union administrations and to help ensure that good practice is disseminated and applied. its work, which seeks to achieve a positive result whenever possible by working towards a friendly settlement satisfactory to both parties, must also continue to be placed in the best possible conditions for progress in the full interest of the european citizen.
in writing. − i voted for this report in view of the importance of the directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. this document aims to establish minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the area of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and solicitation of children for sexual purposes. as the european parliament report underlines, this directive should be fully complementary with the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, and protecting victims. in addition to that, this report asks for reinforced protection for victims and prevention measures, both at eu level and at member states level. the text stresses also that member states must ensure the prompt removal of web-pages containing or disseminating child pornography hosted in their territory and endeavour to obtain the removal of such pages hosted outside of their territory, measures that i consider to be of primary importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is extremely important to take strong measures to protect children from phenomena such as child abuse and exploitation and child pornography. such violence causes permanent damage to the child, not only physically but also psychologically and socially. in this regard, more restrictive measures are needed to discourage such abuse against children. in an age now completely dominated by computer technology (it), there has been a frightening increase in the distribution of child pornography material that is easily available through the use of internet sites. i therefore trust in preventive measures that can restrict access to sites that disseminate videos and photos concerning minors. i also believe that it is desirable and necessary to join forces globally by promoting international cooperation to combat these despicable abuses. prevention of such phenomena is also important: a society that protects children would soon make such behavior unacceptable.
in writing. - the phenomenon of child pornography and sexual abuse of children is a crime that is too often overlooked and difficult to trace because of the technological channels used. these crimes, which violate every fundamental right, require greater attention and, through a comprehensive legislative approach, concrete prevention can be provided, paying particular attention to the internet, a tool often used without the control of adults by children of ever younger age and which, through social networks and uncontrolled websites, is a dangerous channel of exploitation and abuse of minors. much must also be done to combat sex tourism, as provided for in the world tourism organisation declarations, by better regulating the punishability of community citizens travelling to countries where it is easy to have sexual contact with children. it is necessary to establish channels of cooperation with the governments of these countries, which too often ignore the serious situation affecting them because of the influence of this criminal tourism, in order to facilitate the prosecution of those who commit these crimes. i voted in favour of a policy which, if it is to be effective, requires a comprehensive approach to preventing, punishing and, last but not least, protecting the victims of these crimes.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a sensitive and very important subject. the report also includes new offences, particularly those related to the threats posed by the development of information technology. the directive then lays down 22 types of criminal offence, leaving the member states free to provide for more severe penalties. providing that member states have clear legal obligations to punish crimes against children is essential to a more attentive europe to this issue. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr angelilli for the excellent work he has done on this report. the question of the abuse and exploitation of children is a very sensitive one, which requires the utmost rigidity both in the institutional and legislative spheres. the prosecution and punishment of those who commit this type of crime, which is very serious because it is directed against those who, more than others, cannot defend themselves, must, in my view, be one of the main objectives of joint legislation at european level, all the more so today, after the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. today's report is a thorough analysis of the issue, which is becoming more problematic as it touches upon areas that are often less tangible but more dangerous, such as the involvement of the internet in the commission of child pornography offences. the protection of children from this type of crime must, as the report suggests, also include an educational and training programme that accompanies the child after the trauma he may have suffered. coordinating the different aspects of the problem, and also involving non-profit organisations operating at european and global level, is a great way of fighting a crime that we all feel is the most heinous because it targets the most vulnerable, children.
in writing. - the sexual abuse and exploitation of children are particularly serious crimes, which can cause lasting physical, psychological and social harm. we believe that it is essential to adopt an approach that addresses the root causes of the problem, with the aim of eliminating crime, the nature of which is changing rapidly, especially due to the progress of technology and its applications. in the past, manifestations of child pornography were limited to physical media, correspondence or photographs. today images can be sent around the world via the internet, quickly and free of charge. the criminal nature of these acts calls for strong and determined action. we have long discussed the issue of blocking and deleting content from websites. a careful balance needs to be struck between freedom of expression and the protection of minors. member states have a duty to work with internet service providers to ensure that minors are protected from illegal activity through the establishment of a monitoring system. member states must first obtain the deletion of internet pages containing or disseminating child pornography or, if deletion is not possible, provide for the blocking of access to such web pages.
in writing. − it is essential that serious crimes such as the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are tackled globally with an initiative that includes criminal prosecution of the perpetrators, protection of victims and prevention of the phenomenon. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it helps to clarify and better regulate the issue of sexual abuse of children and child pornography. for the first time, rules are being drawn up to protect children from the dangers of the web, including the odious phenomenon of grooming, or online grooming. the report also sets strict rules for those who trade and disseminate child pornography. the internet has become the last frontier of paedophilia, which is unfortunately increasingly used by these odious criminals, and it was therefore right to regulate the matter better. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of minors against the risks of physical or chemical harm. i am, of course, referring to the phenomenon of sex tourism. europe could not stand by and watch these crimes, often perpetrated by community citizens in asian or south american countries: it will become increasingly difficult for these individuals to undertake these journeys and they will know that they can be pursued at any time. we hope that all these measures will be useful in trying to eliminate all forms of violence against children.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, child sexual abuse and exploitation is a social scourge which, in addition to being a serious violation of fundamental rights, is characterized by the weak protection and care necessary for the well-being of children. technology and the breaking down of distance barriers through the internet, allow this phenomenon to penetrate more easily into everyday realities, thus allowing the spread of the atrocious phenomenon. in this context, the harmonization of the member states' legislation on the sexual abuse and exploitation of minors, by making the most serious forms of abuse a criminal offence, is a key factor in preventing the phenomenon from proliferating. in order to ensure that measures are taken to protect young victims, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - the european union has decided to adopt a clear and effective set of rules against all crimes against children, by taking action to combat, prevent and protect them. the crime of sex tourism and the new rules prohibiting those who have committed these crimes from carrying out professional activities in contact with children are just some of the most important new developments. the strengthening of the tools to combat child pornography online, with the introduction of the offence of soliciting children online, now provides greater certainty of punishment against these abominable crimes.
in writing. - madam president, the eu is facing the great challenge of being the destination of intense flows of migrants to whom it must provide assistance and welcome. in order to achieve a common european asylum system by 2012, the rules in force in the member states must be harmonised as soon as possible. for this reason, the directive on minimum standards for the granting of international protection to third-country nationals or stateless persons constitutes a necessary basis for establishing common criteria and ensuring a minimum of equal and fair treatment for all those who, fleeing their country of origin or provenance, to escape persecution on grounds of race, religion, political opinion, nationality or gender, turn to one of the member states of the union for protection. it is necessary to equalise the content of international protection, as well as to provide applicants with other tools and criteria such as frontloading, a rapid analysis of the relevant aspects for obtaining protection and information in a language they reasonably appear to understand. particular attention shall be paid to minors, whose best interests must be safeguarded; in particular, unaccompanied children must be guaranteed the start of family reunification research, which, where possible, must be completed.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a directive on the international protection of third-country nationals or stateless persons. today there are strong differences between member states as regards the granting of international protection. it is therefore necessary to call for further initiatives, through a series of substantive amendments to directive 2004/83/ec, to clarify the minimum standards on the status of refugees or persons in need of international protection. the purpose of this directive is to ensure common criteria for identifying persons who are in genuine need of protection, and to ensure a minimum level of performance for assisting such persons. i would like to emphasize the importance of considering the best interests of the child, and therefore of keeping in mind the principle of family unity, the child's welfare and social development. i also believe that it is necessary to ensure that asylum seekers have access to health care, both physical and mental, and that they are able to work and live in the country in which they are living. i therefore consider it imperative that common definitions and criteria be introduced to guide the competent national authorities of the member states in the application of the geneva convention.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr lambert's report because i believe that we need to converge on the rules protecting citizens who are refugees or in need of international protection. these two qualifications are still divergent today, causing difficulties in identifying the criteria for determining which persons are actually in need of protection. i therefore believe that it is essential to work on directive 2004/837ec and to ensure that aid to third country nationals or stateless persons is timely and as much as possible coordinated between the member states, by balancing interests to ensure the protection of fundamental human rights, together with the unavoidable requirements of security and respect for public order. i believe that special attention should be paid to the problems of children. indeed, the already complex problems faced by stateless persons seeking refugee status are exacerbated in children and therefore require greater attention in the preparation and implementation of legislation.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we welcome the key elements of the new directive: the criteria for the granting of refugee or subsidiary protection status and the content of such protection in terms of residence, employment and social rights within the member state responsible for protection. unfortunately, we have continued to have considerable differences between member states in the application of the legislation in force, which has often resulted in wide disparities in recognition rates and has ended up encouraging secondary movements of applicants. some of the disparities can only be corrected by improving cooperation with the new european asylum support office. finally, an important change is to bring the two categories of protection closer together, so that the concept of beneficiary of international protection is referred to in general terms: this will serve as a reminder to enforcement authorities that the two protection categories are complementary: the secondary protection is no less important for those who would be at risk of serious harm if they returned to their country of origin.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr lambert's report. i agree with the rapporteur that subsidiary protection is important for those who would be at risk of serious harm if they returned to their country of origin.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, following the commission's revision of the original directive 2004/83ec, the european framework on asylum and international protection presents considerable differences between member states, which generally translates into wide disparities in recognition rates, given the disparate practical applications of the current directive. i am in favour of correcting certain disparities by improving cooperation.
in writing. − this text is part of the european framework to establish a common asylum policy by 2012. the current distinction between refugee status and subsidiary protection status needs to be overcome by reviewing the previous directive and the case law that has resulted from it. there are too many differences between member states in the practical application of the current directive, which results in large differences in the so-called recognition rates.
in writing. - i agree with the initiative to seek an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties of the pnr agreement between the european union and australia. the legal uncertainty remains as regards the conditions under which pnr data may be transferred and used and the data protection arrangements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report by mr veld, which not only covers the issue of pnrs, european passenger name recognition codes, but represents a step forward for an integrated and coherent strategy on aviation safety in general. today, the prevention of possible terrorist attacks is still a priority in air transport and we must be fully engaged in this field. it is therefore important that the transmission of sensitive data between europe and australia is effective in combating transnational crime without, however, placing an undue burden on travellers. in this connection i particularly appreciated the references to the use of appropriate rules for their protection and those which ensure the protection of health and the rights of passengers in general. in the future, thanks to our daily efforts, these agreements must not only be recognized in law, but must be an indispensable value for the security of global society.
in writing. the european union is negotiating three international agreements with australia, canada and the united states on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data. the european parliament has established that the need for bulk collection and storage of pnr data needs to be demonstrated, supported by valid evidence for each of the stated purposes; we consider it necessary to demonstrate proportionality and scope, which must be limited precisely and rigorously on the basis of clear legal definitions. subsequent transfers of data from the country of destination to third countries must comply with eu data protection rules, which will be established through a specific adequacy assessment. we also believe it necessary to draw attention to the fact that some criteria have not been fully respected and that there are still some concerns, particularly with regard to pnr agreements with other third countries. we had asked for further procedural guarantees as regards cooperation between the eu institutions: in particular, we have finally obtained a public commitment from the european commission to submit proposals for the suspension or termination of the agreement at the request of the european parliament, in order to ensure democratic control.
in writing. - i am in favour of adopting this recommendation by my colleague sophia in 't veld. i agree with the satisfaction expressed at the inclusion of most of the criteria defined by parliament in the negotiating mandate adopted by the council. it is right, however, to point out the points on which no satisfactory answer was given, such as the fact that the european commission did not request an opinion from the eu fundamental rights agency on the specific agreement with australia.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the current need for an agreement with australia on pnr data arises from the fact that australian legislation provides for the possibility for customs authorities to use pnr codes in the field of barrier protection, which contain different types of information such as names, addresses, identity document numbers and credit card information. this legislation is in part at odds with the european situation, where the pnr code cannot be passed on to other authorities or bodies for the protection of information and privacy.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, as freedom of religion and thought are universal values and essential elements of democracy, i believe it is important to take a clear position on what is happening in egypt and syria. egypt is a key partner of the eu in the arab world, and this text expresses our deep concern about the violent incidents of 9 october 2011, during a peaceful march organised by coptic christians in cairo, which resulted in the death of 25 persons and 300 people being injured. i consider the setting up by the egyptian government of a fact-finding committee to investigate these incidents to be of primary importance. with regard to syria, we strongly condemn the syrian regime’s brutal repression of its population and ask again for president bashar al-assad to step aside in order to open the way to the legitimate democratic aspirations of the syrian people. it is also important to note that the ongoing events in syria are accompanied by actions aimed at inciting inter-ethnic and inter-confessional conflict and increasing sectarian tensions. consequently we encourage the syrian opposition forces to reconfirm their commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms and, notably, freedom of conscience and thought.
in writing. - religious freedom is an essential element of any democracy. condemning and preventing violence and massacres against christian communities must be a priority for the european institutions and the entire international community, because defending these minorities is the basis of our understanding of civil coexistence and democracy. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i have already put several questions to the european union and to baroness ashton on how they intend to intervene to defend religious minorities and civil rights in arab countries. in particular, christian minorities in egypt, syria and iraq are being targeted. i believe that the transition process must take place in accordance with the obligations of these countries under civil and religious rights. the european union must have the courage to break off diplomatic relations with those countries which do not respect them. as regards the situation in syria and iran, the eu must intervene to ensure that the right of citizens to demonstrate freely is respected. condemn any attempt to restrict the free flow of information, attacks and intimidation against journalists and human rights defenders; i stress that the democratic aspirations of citizens must be respected through dialogue and political reforms, with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and through free and fair elections.
in writing. - the positive vote on the resolution on the situation in egypt and syria, particularly as regards christian communities, is a confirmation of the fact that europe continues to show concern for ethnic and religious minorities. the situation is unfortunately becoming more and more worrying today because there is a trail of blood and death, first of all in egypt, but also in other parts of the world, which cannot be ignored by the european institutions. parliament is active and will take action to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. it is useless to deny that there is tension between muslims and christians, but to limit ourselves to this aspect would be to give a partial reading; history teaches us that religions can coexist if there's a favorable climate. the opposition is now exacerbated by dark instigators who "blow on the fire" to exacerbate conflicts and hinder the democratic transition. the role of the military at this stage should be clarified; too often, instead of being guarantors of this transition, they have become repressors. we appeal to representatives of all religions, philosophies and schools of thought to contribute to civil and peaceful coexistence. europe, the home of fundamental freedoms and rights, will do its part to guarantee these principles.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because its text could generate confusion about the european parliament’s commitment to the issue of human rights and the rule of law. the resolution gives the impression that yulia tymoshenko, the famous ukrainian tycoon and politician now in jail, deserves to be supported as if she where a champion of freedom and justice in her country. ms tymoshenko came to international attention after the end of the soviet union as a member of the new oligarchy who accumulated huge fortunes through the fraudulent privatisation of public goods and through shady practices in business and politics in ukraine and russia. she had already been arrested a decade ago on economic crime charges. ms tymoshenko’s opponents and current competitors for power in ukraine are no better than she. i do not therefore understand why the eu should meddle in a fight between two factions of foreign oligarchs, nether of which is either credible as a victim or committed to the values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. nor do i understand why our relationship with ukraine as a country should be affected by the tymoshenko case.
in writing. − implementing reforms that substantially increase the freedom of citizens is important not only for the ex-soviet country's relations with the european union, but also for the consolidation of democracy. the role of the european union is very important in view of the worrying signs of the last few months. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − every year in the eu, around 25 000 people die from infections caused by drug-resistant bacteria. the rise of antibiotic resistance is not only a medical problem, but also a socioeconomic one: the price we pay in europe for the misuse of these medicines is in fact quantifiable in an annual loss of productivity of at least 1.5 billion euros. in light of this growing threat to public health, there is an urgent need for global awareness. i believe it is essential to raise awareness among eu citizens about antibiotics and to increase the level of responsibility in their use. the european antibiotics day, celebrated on 18 november, is a laudable initiative in this respect, reminding us every year of the importance of using antibiotics only when necessary and especially on prescription from a doctor who can ensure their effectiveness. we must also promote the prudent use of antimicrobials in both human and veterinary medicine. i think it is rather premature to call for the total elimination of the use of antibiotics as prophylaxis in livestock farming, since these are medicines which are essential for the control of infectious diseases and which have also contributed significantly to the improvement of livestock production.
in writing. - my vote is in favour of the resolution. antimicrobial resistance is a major and largely unresolved problem that now poses a threat to public health in europe. the commission should ensure that sufficient financial and human resources are available.
in writing. - this report addresses a particularly sensitive issue, namely the need to pay particular attention to the use of antibiotic medicines. a prescription is required to buy an antibiotic, but once a product is obtained which normally contains more tablets than the user actually needs, these remain available. people often misuse antibiotics, and this common practice is leading to microbial resistance to antibiotics, rendering them useless in some cases and requiring more antibiotics in others. therefore, patients should be trained in the intelligent use of these medicines, which should be given only when there is a real need and sold in the number of tablets needed and as directed by the prescribing physician.
mr president, i wanted to know whether the same rules that apply to me - i raised my blue card earlier to ask a question to mrs de keyser, which i was unable to do - also apply to mrs de keyser, who has now had 30 seconds to answer a question. if the blue card can be lifted on mrs de keyser's point of order, i did, but i was told that i could not put a question and now mrs de keyser has been given time to answer another question. i wanted to know if the same rule applies to you and me or if there are two different rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since a violent protest rocked tibet in march 2008, the repression has been very sharp. one of the places most affected by the intensification of repression was the monastery of kirti in the chinese region of sichuan, where almost all the immolations took place, which we rightly recall in our resolution. the first was on the third anniversary of the 2008 uprisings by a 20-year-old monk. since then, in addition to a total lack of progress in dialogue with the dalai lama and the international community, beijing has imposed a line of even greater surveillance, an effective military curfew that has led to a semi-emptying of the kirti monastery (from 2,500 to 600 monks), continuously monitored by chinese law enforcement. after the first death, the authorities punished dozens of monks with prison sentences of varying lengths, sentencing three to 10 or 13 years for assisting their companion in self-immolation. the monk's family members were also detained and interrogated, as a growing sense of terror spread throughout tibet. i think that is reason enough for this parliament to vote and pass a resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i confess that i do not understand many of the criticisms and comments that have been made by some of my colleagues. some of them even seem offensive to the socialist and democratic group. you have no reason to doubt our intentions with regard to the rights of people living in the world, starting with tibet and then moving on to other parts of the world which are still being dealt with these days. we have always defended human rights. what mrs de keyser has raised is another problem, a problem of political opportunity, namely whether a position taken by parliament at this moment can help or hinder a process aimed at solving the dramatic problem of tibetan monks, who have the right to express their opinions and live in proper conditions in their land, in full democracy. there is no doubt that there are restrictions. the theme is different: don't let a good intention and positive assumptions, like the ones that drive you, become a hindrance to the process of solving that problem. that's all i got. we have no different views on the question of human rights being guaranteed at all times. but watch the time.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution is particularly full and detailed, and this is to stigmatize the attitude of the bahraini government which is responsible for having set up a real police state in response to the legitimate and peaceful protests of the people. the other factor of extreme concern is the use of special military courts to try civilians. this, as our resolution recalls, is a violation of international fair trial standards and we must do everything possible to put an end to mass trials of civilians before military courts, namely the national security court. we call on the bahraini authorities to restore and respect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including pluralism, freedom of expression and assembly, freedom of religion, women's rights and measures against discrimination, and to end censorship. it is also important in the light of the precedents of the last few months, because what has happened in the last few months shows us that the lives of thousands of citizens, the hope of a people and the future of a country are at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in bahrain the ruling family has rejected reform for too long and, like saudi arabia which supports it, believes in the effectiveness of repression. but the arab world is changing in an irrepressible way, and saudi arabia is not immune to the winds of innovation and the thirst for democratization and aspirations for political, economic and social reform. a bahraini court last week sentenced 14 people, including 12 women, to six months in prison for illegally protesting. the defendants were convicted of causing chaos and panic among the people of manama during a protest inside a shopping mall and were jailed for participating in a gathering of more than five people. since the protests against the sunni monarchy began in bahrain in mid-february, hundreds of people have been arrested. the main opposition parties have proposed a peaceful solution to the political crisis that has been ongoing since mid-february. the document calls for democratic reforms and an elected government preserving democracy, but these demands are rejected. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of these clear violations of the rights to freedom of assembly and expression.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i begin briefly with my report, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me on the revision of the railway recast and, in particular, i should like to thank mr kuhn, mr tremosa i balcells, mr zīle, mr krahmer and mr wils. i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on transport, brian simpson, the group coordinators and all the other members for the extensive discussion we have had on a particularly complicated report, but one which i believe is important for the implementation of the railway system. this is the revision of the first railway package, which has not been properly applied since it came into force, so much so that 13 infringement procedures are currently under way against different states in relation to the application of the first railway package. the aim of the railway reform is to achieve a single european railway market. it is an ambitious objective because the railway system is the most backward of all transport systems, that is to say, the one which has not been able to catch up with other means of transport. it is enough to recall that, as far as rail freight is concerned, we are stuck at an average of 6-7% of freight transport in our european countries, while only 11-12% of passengers travel by rail. it is clear that we must harmonize the rules, that we must strengthen and add new systems and new elements to ensure that railways, especially on cross-border routes, which are the most difficult for european integration, develop properly. the single european market is therefore necessary, as it has been for the air transport sector. the single market will enable citizens to travel by train throughout europe at better fares and with a service on a par with other modes of transport. to date, few trains can travel across the border. the aim now is to enable them to compete throughout europe, which, as i said, is not the case today. the first railway package was therefore intended to guarantee the objective of this reform and all the measures that will follow for the unification of the railway system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one of the important points we have discussed at length and which i believe is also the most important result of the railway reform is the envisaged creation of a national regulator, a network of national regulators with clear powers, a national regulator such as the one for energy, which is strong, has resources and which perhaps - this is the hope of many - will then enable us to arrive at a single european regulator in the future. we have tried to give precise rules for the transparency and separation of the accounts of the infrastructure manager and the service manager, prohibiting cross-transfers between the network and the service manager as is the case for example in the case of many holding companies. we have tried to maintain the separation of accounts, which has been in force since 1991, according to which public funds for infrastructure must be used only to improve infrastructure and not to finance the activities of transport companies, also because these subsidies prevent fair competition for all operators in the service. i would have liked to see more ambition in the railway package as rapporteur, i would have also liked to see a complete separation between infrastructure and service operator. however, we have obtained a commitment from the commission that this will be done by 31 december 2012. other important forecasts concern the ease of access to infrastructure, which is essential to ensure that all new operators can use the network services, and we have also obtained a commitment not only to full unbundling but also to the submission by the commission by 31 december 2012 of a proposal for the liberalisation of the national market. we have also envisaged benefits for all those operators who will make important technological innovations to reduce the environmental impact and we have also envisaged that improvements can be made in this area by providing for the possibility of strategic plans that go from 5 years to 7 years. we have also wanted to ensure that the rules on labour law and safety at the workplace are respected and that the right to strike is preserved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the honourable member who - i think quite rightly - insists on rail transport being used primarily instead of rubber, how he views the attitude of those people in italy who, even by violent means, oppose the rapid rail link between france and italy, even contesting the underground passage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank mr serracchiani for the work he has done this year with the colleagues who have followed him. i must say that we have tried to influence the efficiency of the railway market. the text proposes that we create a single european railway area. the expectations were high, but after a year of work, i think i can see that it has been considerably scaled down. the analysis of the situation has shown that the market is far from being single and integrated and, above all, the issue of the liberalization of national and regional passenger transport markets is not yet recognized by this parliament. we are talking about 60% of the railway market, which is not, in fact, free at the moment. i am personally astonished at the lukewarm approach to a matter which concerns one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. given the contingent situation in which we must concentrate on growth, i wonder how it is possible to give up the removal of administrative barriers which impede the competitive development of competition and the european market. the same fate was assigned to the reflection on the relationship between infrastructure managers and railway companies. in this connection i have tabled an amendment to annex i to include passenger stations in the infrastructure in order to have equal and fair access for all those who exercise the role of passenger services. this is important, otherwise we would start with the wrong division.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, these remarks reflect a large variety of the details of this complex matter. i think that this railway recast legislation is worthy of support. it has some important elements, such as clear and efficient rules on infrastructure, financing and charging, the strengthening of national regulators – so the regulatory dimension will be strengthened and will be very important in our future deliberations – and better access to rail-related services. so these are elements which clearly show improvements in this railway recast package. of course, a lot of things will remain for the future. it is far from the end of the story – it is one step. i must ensure that our main aim is to create an attractive railway area and in order for this to happen, railways need punctuality, reliability and speed to compete with roads, and they must operate in europe as a whole. these are the basic points. then we can also create more jobs in the railway sector if railways offer better services for people and businesses. so we will work on the next package and let us follow our ambitions.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speakers have pointed out, this proposal for a directive has involved a very complex task: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. among these compromise texts is also article 7 which the commissioner mentioned, in which parliament calls on the commission to make a proposal on the separation and liberalisation of the national market by 31 december 2012. there is no proposal that is premature in any way, but there is a clear call for an equally clear and precise direction to be given, a direction which, if it had been there from the beginning, would probably have helped in the gestation of this long railway project. meanwhile, my assistant also had a baby, so it was indeed an extremely long and complicated pregnancy, but i'm sure we understand how important it is to increase the rail system. we have said that we need a competitive railway system, so we must set ourselves rules, perhaps few but clear, which are respected by all. we know that there is a problem of free competition on the railway market, and we know this particularly in the case of freight. the railway industry has the ambition of making the european single market. so the call is strong for this commission to come up with a clear proposal by next year and, since next year is so close, we propose to start working so that this parliament can also fulfil its role as legislator, also because the text which has just been dismissed by the council is a text which is extremely negative also on the proposals. we hope therefore that this parliament will give us a clear and full mandate to be able to make a full negotiation which will really open up the european single market to all the expectations to which - i hear the cry of pain from mr cancian - we must respond.
member of the commission. - madam president, good evening to each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen. i thank you for giving me the floor to raise an extremely important subject at a time when we are talking about citizens and the market, the large market, and the human dimension of this large market which we want to strengthen. the recognition of professional qualifications is of particular interest to citizens: 28% of them now plan to work in another country during their career. between 2007 and 2010, the automatic recognition of professional qualifications enabled more than 100,000 europeans to realise this personal project. we think the potential of this device is even greater. it now covers some 6.4 million professionals, including 5.7 million healthcare professionals, 160,000 veterinary surgeons and over 435,000 architects. such figures, ladies and gentlemen, show what the circulation of such skills throughout the internal market can mean. that is why we must, and we want to, make this recognition easier, simpler, quicker. this recognition of qualifications is an additional source of confidence and god knows what confidence is needed at the moment for citizens and for businesses in the european project. i would like to say, after these general remarks, how pleased i am that the own-initiative report you have just presented, mrs mcclarkin, is a real convergence with many of the ideas put forward by the commission in the green paper published in june. this confirms once again the high-quality cooperation between our two institutions, which i am very keen to see. and i was able to verify this quality and frankness in our relations at the public conference which the commission organized on 7 november in brussels, where many of you were present, in particular president malcolm harbour, but also emilie turunen, bernadette vergnaud, constance le grip, who were pleased to speak in the panels. i would like to thank in particular you, mrs mcclarkin and mr harbour, and to commend the work of all the other members who, in the imco, envi and emploi committees, have contributed to the reflection you have presented in a very constructive way. i would like to confirm that this report, which you have just presented, is a very important contribution to me as we are in the very last stretch of preparing the legislative proposal which the commission will present on 20 december. our positions are not always the same, but beyond these few nuances there are no major differences of opinion. i would like to emphasize four important points. first, the business card. the first objective of this modernisation of the directive is to promote mobility by simplifying and making more efficient the procedures for the recognition of qualifications. that is why we are thinking - as i have already said - of creating this european professional card, which must be easy, pragmatic and practical. this is not a traditional smart card which could be very expensive and in any case difficult to make at a reasonable cost. the card we are proposing is an electronic certificate based on the exchange of information between the competent authorities. this optional card for professionals but mandatory for the competent authorities could reduce the time taken to process an application for recognition from a few months to a few weeks. and naturally, it will involve the home member states much more and, as you said earlier, rely on the internal market information system imi, which must help to reduce costs for all the actors concerned. secondly, the number of regulated professions. i am aware - you have also mentioned this a moment ago, mrs mcclarkin - of the debate on the number of regulated professions which some consider to be too large. i would like to put this delicate point in context. of the 800 regulated occupational categories, 43% are health professionals, 9% teachers and social workers. i do not think it is unreasonable, if i can give you my objective opinion, that, in such sensitive sectors, there should be regulation of the professions involved in these sectors. so i think we must first see exactly what is regulated and why. i do not exclude the possibility that a stronger obligation of transparency towards the member states may be envisaged as a first step. it is up to these member states to make this effort of critical analysis on the number and type of regulated professions. i was at the competitiveness council the other day, and one of the ministers around the table, the portuguese minister, explained that by national will, some 15 regulations which were considered unnecessary had been abolished. however, without waiting for this work to be encouraged in the member states, we will propose solutions such as partial access which could reduce the difficulties faced by some professionals in their mobility. thirdly, the preservation of automatic recognition. automatic recognition is currently a mobility-friendly regime. it is an achievement that we want to preserve. i am very glad that parliament supports this position. i will nevertheless propose to modernise this system and go even further by extending it to other professions, in particular through common training frameworks, which could usefully replace the old concept of common platforms. we need to modernize, yes, but without questioning this automatic recognition. for example, you have just mentioned, mrs mcclarkin, the question of language requirements for health professionals, which must be considered with a certain degree of caution. the problem is not so much the directive itself. i believe that this directive imposes an obligation on professionals to have knowledge of the language of the host country, which is obviously necessary for the proper exercise of their profession. the problem, we believe, is the implementation of this obligation for health professionals in the member states. two points on this. first, as regards salaried professionals, i would stress the role of employers who must check the language skills of their employees; secondly, i find that the best solution we have in this respect is to disconnect the verification of language skills from the recognition of professional qualifications. the fourth and final point is the one-stop shop. for businesses, for the selfemployed, the services directive has been a great step forward. i also want to say that every week, in my visits to the member states and in my relations with the national administrations, i try to check that the services directive has been properly transposed and, above all, that it has been properly implemented, since its potential is not yet fully exploited. a great deal of progress has been made with this 'services' directive, with the establishment of one-stop shops to obtain information, to complete administrative formalities by electronic means. the same benefits must be extended to wage-earners, to health-care professionals. we should therefore set up an online information centre, as you yourself have suggested, based on these one-stop shops and allowing these professionals to carry out the recognition procedure online. these are the four points i wanted to make, and i thank you very much, mrs mcclarkin, for the quality of this report, which will be very useful to me and my services in the next few days, before the legislative proposal we will be presenting on 20 december.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility of european workers is one of the pillars of the full realisation of the internal market and a lever for development and the economy. in europe, there is an estimated shortage of about one million healthcare professionals. this requires a system of recognition of qualifications which is fast and effective, and the professional card could facilitate this process. in the health sector, however, mobility must be combined with patient safety and security. this is the direction taken by the report which was voted almost unanimously in the committee on the environment, on which i was rapporteur. mobility and patient protection must be considered as two sides of the same coin. the rapid alert mechanism extended to the health professions is therefore not only acceptable but also necessary.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of professional qualifications is an important step at european level, since it is a prerequisite for a professional who is legally practising in one member state to be considered sufficiently qualified and competent to practise, even temporarily, in any other member state. there are professions which require continuing training, and it is important that this is accessible and verifiable at all levels and throughout europe. the report pays particular attention to the health sector, which involves doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other professionals who also need to know the language in order to avoid misunderstandings with the patient. the clause which we consider to be fundamental is that each member state may make access to a given profession legally conditional upon possession of a specific professional qualification. the professional card proposed by commissioner barnier could make it easier to check in advance whether one is qualified to use one's qualifications in any other member state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is a continent rich in fresh water but in danger of becoming poor in drinking water. this is a paradox due to the increasing number of cases of pollution of the aquifers. in italy, for example, in veneto, my region, in the last fifty years, underground mining and landfills have been authorized, which have led to serious pollution of the groundwater, soil and drinking water wells. in may this year, the regional agency for environmental protection in the veneto region found mercury poisoning in more than 100 wells in several municipalities in the province of treviso. the most important and necessary soil directive, adopted by the european parliament at first reading in 2007 but still blocked in the council, which provides for the obligation to survey and remediate contaminated sites and thus solve the problem of groundwater pollution, must therefore be unblocked immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italian has been an official language of the european union since the first community regulation in 1958 and is confirmed as such in the treaty. how is it possible that the european parliament's offices often fail to respect the treaty, by not using the italian language in acts, documents, communications and simultaneous translations, creating difficulties of understanding and limiting the possibility of expression for those who wish to use it? even at shadow meetings, trilogues and meetings of parliamentary delegations and missions, and sometimes also at committee coordinators' meetings, translation is available only in english. i have nothing against the british, but i have no intention of being colonized by them. i am here to defend and protect my people and i demand, in accordance with the motto of the european union, 'united in diversity', that i be allowed to speak in my own language. if the fundamental principles of the union, including the equal dignity of the official languages, are not respected in this parliament and in all its organs and offices, i will appeal to the court of justice to stop this supranational approval that the powerful want for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the members have raised very important and very serious issues in this debate. mine is not, but i think it's relevant. the administration of the parliament refused to pay a taxi receipt for as much as 12 euros, simply because it was written in a way that they did not think was very understandable. i believe that if certain services, speaking of the european union in general, had better controlled the accounts of certain countries rather than the receipts of 12 euros, we would not be in this state of crisis from which we all have to suffer.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 18 months ago i committed myself to open a wide consultation on this very important subject of online gambling. we are returning to this subject today and i would like to return to it for my part, indicating my firm intention to translate its main conclusions into action, beyond and after this consultation. we have received more than 250 responses which, together with the five expert workshops we have organised and the intense debate which you, ladies and gentlemen, have had on mr creutzmann's own-initiative report, clearly demonstrate this dynamic in favour of concrete action at european level on a basic regulatory framework which respects - i say this to president malcolm harbour - what he himself has called - and which i would like to take up for my own account - active subsidiarity. i would like to thank mr creutzmann for his commitment and mrs schaldemose, mrs rühle, mr abad, mr de jong and mr fox for their contributions to this report. this report shows a great deal of convergence of views among you on the diagnosis. first, in the online environment, no member state can ensure consumer and citizen protection on its own. i say this in reference to what my colleague and friend john dalli said earlier on the consumer issue in general. secondly, consumers and all citizens must be able to rely on an equal and effective minimum level of protection, and in particular for young people and minors, which was mentioned earlier by mrs roithová, regardless of the gaming platform they are playing on. thirdly, while each member state remains free to determine the level of openness of its market, in accordance with the principle of coherence, it is clear that we are gradually moving towards this controlled openness - mr abad described it very clearly - of many markets. fourthly, in the absence of legal offers in europe, europeans are playing and will continue to play on illegal third country sites, which are unprotected and open to all kinds of fraud and money laundering. fifthly, we must ensure that, to avoid the consequences of what i have just said, we offer attractive conditions to online gambling operators if we are to protect players and prevent fraud. sixthly, we must act because this sector is expanding. it generated a turnover of eur 8,5 billion in 2010 and could reach eur 13 billion in 2015. even though this represents only 14% of the gambling market in the european union, europe still accounts for 45% of the global online gambling market. we must support this sector in its expansion while ensuring that it is properly supervised. what could be, what should be our roadmap to answer all of your questions and all of these challenges? ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear. harmonisation is not on the agenda, but joint action on some key issues can be envisaged and perhaps at the end of our road, a framework - i repeat - of a common regulatory base. i would like to mention six key areas where we are going to act. first, there is the dialogue between national regulators. we know that there is a lack of cooperation between national regulators which is probably the result of a lack of mutual trust. apart from a few bilateral agreements and a recent attempt to create a common platform, there is no culture of cooperation between national regulators. on the contrary, i have observed that there was - i repeat - often a lack of confidence. but without a new degree, an additional degree of mutual trust, no progress can be made at european level in strengthening controls and protecting players, especially young people. the priority should therefore be to get european regulators to work together. the second key issue is a minimum requirement for protection. we must guarantee a high level of protection for every european citizen - and i repeat, first of all for young people - to move forward in this direction. we will have to bring together the online gambling professionals who today self-regulate and the regulators who, i remind you apply different requirements. there is therefore a general call - and you have relayed this in your report, mr creutzmann - for greater clarity and legal certainty. the third key issue is the fight against fraud. there is a very broad consensus in this consultation and in what you yourself say in favour of extending the scope of the anti-money laundering directive, which currently only covers casinos, to the whole of the online gambling sector. this would be a significant step forward in the regulation of the sector at european level. the fourth key topic is addiction. it has been mentioned earlier by mrs irigoyen pérez or mrs sehnalová. we cannot seriously talk about consumer protection without recognizing the need for more studies, research on the scientific data that are linked to gambling and addiction. we must mobilise our research capacity on a subject which is sometimes considered marginal, but which i do not consider to be marginal. integrity of sport is the fifth key issue. here again, mr creutzmann, ladies and gentlemen, i have noted your interest in the issue of sports fraud and i share your desire to contribute to effective solutions, including the idea of a definition of sports fraud at european level, or even a criminal indictment, an idea which i find interesting but difficult. we can't just go off the rails. it requires a lot of legal and technical work and we are working on it with my colleagues who are directly concerned, in particular commissioner reding, mrs vassiliou and of course mr dalli for consumers. i am also convinced that progress will have to be made towards better cooperation between sports organisations - mr abad mentioned this - with operators and regulators, in order to prevent match-fixing. the sixth area of work is the question of the conformity of national schemes with the treaties. i would like to reply to mr takkula on this point, since he himself has quoted the court of justice, which is extremely clear about restrictions which can be justified in the public interest. i think, mr takkula, that in order to make progress in this area, we must clarify what distinguishes a legal gambling offer from an illegal one; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector. the commission will take its responsibilities on this and other points. how, mr creutzmann, are we going to work on the basis of these key issues, on the basis of your requests, your proposals and this report? my personal inclination is, first of all, to promote cooperation between regulators, and i intend in the very next few weeks to convene and organize myself a meeting of all the national regulators to create this climate of confidence, which does not really exist, and to lay the foundations for this cooperation. if, as one might expect, the cooperation of regulators makes progress on the key issues we have mentioned, but above all highlights the need for complementary action, then we will work on a second stage, which could, as mr paška has asked, be based on regulatory initiatives and create minimum standards. naturally, i want to be very clear on this. i am a member of a college, i have to work with all my colleagues and therefore make them share this conviction. we are going to proceed with the first step which i mentioned very quickly: the joint work of the regulators. i should like to take this first observation and this first work as a starting point and share with my colleagues the conviction i have just expressed that we must go further, particularly in the development of minimum regulatory initiatives. so we have to follow the steps one by one. that is why, having mentioned the main challenges we face, i will now work in the light of your report, mr creutzmann, and i intend to propose to you, after the college has deliberated and decided, a plan of concrete actions which i will submit to the college of the european commission in the middle of 2012. i am very grateful to mr creutzmann and to the members for this report which will inform, guide and support the commission in its future work. we have a collective responsibility to help member states regulate online gambling, protect consumers, especially young people, develop legal offers and fight fraud effectively and together. you can be assured of my determination on all these matters.
in writing. according to recent data, the online gambling sector continues to grow. these games now account for 10% of the european gambling market, and their market share is continuously growing, with a turnover of over eur 10 billion. the continuing growth in supply and the number of players is increasingly highlighting the fragmentation of the european market in this sector. in some member states, there is an absolute prohibition or a reservation of authorization, while in others the market is completely liberalized. moreover, given the cross-border nature of the internet, member states alone are not in a position to regulate all aspects of online gambling. i therefore believe it is essential to ensure that national regulatory bodies cooperate closely. i also agree with the rapporteur that such cooperation should be institutionalised, including through the internal market information system, in order to share information efficiently and quickly. on the front of combating the growth of the black market on the internet, i believe that national regulatory bodies must have the necessary powers to punish any infringements and prosecute unauthorised operators.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has made an urgent request to parliament to express its opinion - i repeat, only opinion - on the matter for which i have been appointed rapporteur at the november 2011 meeting of the committee on fisheries. as rapporteur, and on behalf of the whole committee on fisheries, i oppose the council's request for urgency and i think it is necessary to explain why we have taken this decision. this council proposal concerns access for vessels flying the flag of venezuela to the exclusive economic zone off the coast of the french department of guiana. the proposal is similar to an international agreement on which, under the lisbon treaty, parliament has the right to speak as a co-legislator under the ordinary legislative procedure and is not required to give its opinion. the proposal presents no difficulties in substance and, if approved by the council, will create obligations for the parties concerned in international law similar to those of a fisheries agreement in due form. but the crux of our decision lies elsewhere. the european commission put forward this proposal to parliament on the basis of a specific legal basis, namely articles 43 and 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and parliament, in view of the content and spirit of the proposal, which gave it, among other things, a power of approval, fully accepted it. it was then that the council, in its subsequent referral to parliament, amended the legal basis in question, setting aside articles 43 and 218 and opting for articles 43 (3) and 218 (6), thus reducing the expression of parliament to a simple opinion. the coordinators of our committee on fisheries have rejected this amendment by the council and have referred the matter to the legal affairs committee of the european parliament before taking any final position. the commission has confirmed the validity of the legal basis initially adopted by the european commission and, in particular, has warned our committee on fisheries of the unpleasant precedent which could be set by the implementation of such a combination of articles 43 (3) and 218 (6) of the treaty. in response to the council's insistence that the opinion be obtained as soon as possible, rather than approval, the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mrs fraga estévez, in a letter to mr buzek, recalled both the position of the committee on fisheries and that of the legal affairs committee and suggested that mr buzek send the council a proposal containing the original legal basis in order to resolve the dispute. president buzek sent a letter to that effect to the president of the council on 26 october 2011 and has not received a reply to date. i therefore think it is appropriate to await the council's reply and it is nevertheless essential to reiterate that we are not prepared to abandon the fundamental rights of parliament which we have a duty to defend.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur mr frédéric daerden and the committee for employment and social affairs for the comprehensive report on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. the report is very timely in the current context of a severe economic and financial downturn across the european union and the consequent impact this has on vulnerable groups in societies. first of all, let me recall that the first annual convention of the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, jointly organised by the commission and the polish presidency, took place in krakow. this convention brought together over 400 participants from 38 european countries, including ministers and state secretaries, other policymakers, civil society representatives, journalists, people experiencing poverty and independent experts. i was very pleased that members of the european parliament, including mr daerden himself, today’s rapporteur, attended the convention. i represented the commission there, and i think the first meeting of this convention was successful, useful and forward-looking. the convention took stock of the implementation of the poverty platform and it discussed how the different policy areas – employment, education, health, just to mention a few – could contribute to tackling poverty and social exclusion. this multidimensional approach, which was welcomed by all participants, should be further strengthened in the future in line with the european platform; employment, education, and health, together with housing, are the key parameters in the european framework of roma integration strategies, which is a major anti-poverty effort that requires european-level coordination but also support. mr daerden, in your report you underlined the multidimensional aspects of poverty, ranging from extreme poverty and homelessness to in-work poverty, but also the gender and age dimensions, and the specific questions of people with disabilities and ethnic minorities. the european platform against poverty and social exclusion alone will not be able to solve all the issues raised in the report, but it provides, in my view, a good framework for actions, and each and everyone should accept their share of responsibility in tackling the rising problem of poverty. among the actions to be implemented and solutions, you mentioned that there is a need for a better monitoring system allowing rapid and accurate analysis. i agree with you. we have already started to develop such a system with the involvement of eurostat and the indicators subgroup of the social protection committee. you also called for regular and critical monitoring of the member states’ poverty-reduction targets. this is indeed very important. the current national targets will not allow the eu headline target to be met. pressure is also needed from parliament to ensure a higher level of ambition across the member states which, at a later stage, can be translated into higher national targets. while the economic crisis is placing a huge pressure on national social protection systems, it cannot be an alibi for non-action. more fairness in fiscal consolidation can be applied and must be pursued. i agree with you on tackling child poverty urgently and giving all children the possibility of fulfilling their potential, regardless of their social background. in 2012, therefore, i intend to propose common principles on child poverty covering support for families, access to essential services and participation. fundamentally, more and better employment is the most effective route out of poverty. however, the current economic situation is not conducive to employment growth and many groups, especially young people, have difficulties in entering, or staying in, the labour market. against this background, the commission will soon launch the youth opportunities initiative. beyond conventional employment policy, the social economy offers opportunities. the commission adopted communications on a social business initiative and on corporate social responsibility on 25 october 2011, and i am sure we can do more in this area. we need to promote the implementation of the three pillars of active inclusion: namely, active labour-market policies, minimum income and access to services. the commission will present in 2012 an assessment of the implementation of active inclusion strategies. finally, regarding the budget issues which mr daerden raised in the report, the commission’s proposal envisages allocating at least 20% of the future european social fund to promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. we have proposed increasing the budget for the esf by at least 7.5% which represents a minimum of eur 84 billion, or 25%, of cohesion policy over the seven years from 2014 to 2020. if adopted, this would imply a very significant increase, both in absolute and relative terms, in the support aimed at the most vulnerable groups in society. i thank you for your attention.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the policies to combat the new and old forms of poverty, which are unfortunately on the increase in today's europe and in the europe of the recent crisis, and also the one-sided austerity policies, especially by the states, require new financial commitments and new resources, both in the european budget, also in the framework of the financial perspective, and in european policies - as has just been mentioned - from the social fund to the erdf, and in the budgets of the individual states. we should use the european semester, particularly in the individual member states, to monitor year by year the policies which the individual member states are pursuing in this fundamental challenge. the objective of reducing poverty and social exclusion for some 20 million european citizens must therefore be credible if there is to be consistency between the enormous resources that europe and the member states must make available and the concrete policies that we can put in place. it is estimated that we need about 2 billion euros between now and 2020 to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. this is the challenge we are highlighting and putting in the spotlight as the committee on budgets: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many, many categories of people in difficulty in our countries - the elderly, women, young people and the disabled - and millions of people and families are brought to their knees by the crisis and by speculation. in view of this, we are here to discuss plans to support the roma communities and to provide housing for immigrants. we must think of helping those who are really in difficulty and of giving financial and political support to the family, which is the institution on which our society is based. we must help the small and mediumsized enterprises which have been suffocated by the crisis, because these smes are the real antidote to poverty and the real source of wealth in our countries. we must give priority to our best forces, and not tax them to guarantee migrants a minimum income that europe wants to bring down from above. enough talk about roma and immigrants, now we must give priority to the truly excluded. if we look around, we can see many of them, and we certainly do not have to go into a roma camp to see them. europe must now, more than ever, direct its efforts and funds to these excluded people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the request in mr daerden's excellent report to urge the commission to adopt a legislative measure on the minimum income. it is very important that europe as a whole should have a tool to defend the most vulnerable people and to enable them to live in dignity, and when they are hit by the loss of their jobs or are unsuccessfully looking for work, it is important that these people should have a tool to ensure that they can live in dignity. i think it is also very important to reflect on a phenomenon which is affecting europe for the first time, namely the problem of poor working conditions. historically, the poor were people without work, but today we are faced with a new reality: there are people who work - among these many women - who with the income they get from their work cannot cross the poverty line. it is very important to provide robust training if this phenomenon is to be counteracted. only through knowledge and learning of other activities is it possible to overcome the phenomenon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in its call for budgetary discipline, europe is a moment of truth for countries which have squandered and mismanaged their resources. but europe must also become a moment of truth in denouncing and resolving the growing social exclusion. one has only to read the reports of caritas and speak to the volunteers who are working against urban poverty to understand the extent of a phenomenon that now affects even those who thought they would never find themselves in a soup kitchen or a night hostel. just look around. a few weeks ago in paris, in the place de la bastille, a homeless couple slept on the street with a newborn baby between them. a little further on, in the rue st-antoine, we're talking about wealthy paris. there's a couple on the floor and on the cards and under the covers, two more children. i stopped to watch the reaction of passersby, and in 15 minutes no one even stopped to look. the indifference of a good part of our citizens is the other face of this emergency. last year i spent a night in rome with the emmaus volunteers. i learned a lot, but i also found them scandalously lonely. with this report, which italy of values will support, we therefore ask that we do not forget a problem which we often prefer to ignore.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the weaker sections of society, especially young people, women and disabled people, are the ones who have been hit hardest by the financial, economic and social crisis. the european union must make vulnerable groups one of its priorities by implementing the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. i would stress the need to maintain the european programme of food aid to the poor, especially for women who are often the first victims of food poverty. it is essential to call on the member states to provide adequate support to single-parent families, which are at high risk of poverty, not only economic but also social aid by facilitating access to various facilities, such as childcare institutions. i hope that the european institutions, together with the member states, will join forces.
member of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. each country and region has a budget allocated to it, and it is our common objective to ensure that the budget is used in accordance with the criteria and principles of sustainability and smart use. it must be our aim and our task, and it is also part of our identity as regional politicians, to help weak administrations and bureaucracies, for example, which have development needs, to improve their capacity and skills in order to implement appropriate projects which can then also be supported, and that this can ultimately also ensure the absorption rate. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. it is very important to remember that this is an ultimate ratio measure. in fact, if criteria of the stability and growth pact are not met, there are guidelines for the measures that a member state has to take. in general, and in the light of the foregoing, the countries react accordingly. their efforts are not always successful, but the intention, the effort, is there, and that would not justify the application of macroeconomic conditionality. this is to be applied when a country persists in refusing and opposing the application of measures proposed by the commission and adopted by the council to improve the economic situation. then there must be the possibility of an ultima ratio which can be applied. but i think that in the future, while this is possible in principle, it will hopefully never be possible in practice.
member of the commission. − the reference year for eligible agricultural areas is 2014 in order to take account of the reality at the time of the decision or from the time when this decision will apply. on the other hand, 2011 is the reference year for farmers who are entitled to apply for these aids precisely in order to avoid speculation in 2012 or 2013 and farmers who did not exist as farmers registering with certain areas for the sole purpose of obtaining entitlement to subsidies. during this period we are giving the possibility to integrate young farmers who would be setting up in 2012 and 2013 and we are also giving the possibility to the member states to take account of specific situations as was done in the 2003 reform. there are thus two references: 2011 for the farmer who has rights and 2014 for the area which will allow him to apply for rights from the member states in order to avoid speculation and the possibility to take into account the margins of manoeuvre during this period. i know that there are situations in ireland, particularly in northern ireland, for example, where landowners are also farmers. they farm part of their land and rent the rest. these are specific situations which will have to be dealt with in order to avoid speculation on either side. i am well aware that these are specific situations to be dealt with in discussions in the decision-making process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the important landscape and environmental role of tree crops is now well known and recognized. several scientific studies have shown that trees have a higher co2 reduction capacity than grassland and pastures. given the provisions of direct payments, which require that 7% of eligible hectares be devoted to ecological areas, what will happen, commissioner, in the case of an olive farm which already includes drywall and row-shaped walls and which also includes perennial plants of great landscape value as well as economic value? does he not think that these farms are already sufficiently environmentally sustainable and that the application of the 7% requirement above risks damaging economic sustainability and also damaging the environment, as farmers are forced to cut down part of their olive trees?
member of the commission. - the proposal, as presented, recognises the role of tree plantations on the environment since the crop rotation measure is not proposed. but this measure of keeping 7 per cent at the level of the ecological use of the areas can easily be applied to tree plantations, because the areas, the spaces between the rows of trees or the edges of the plantations can very well be kept under grass. this is a system that works well in the production of fruit trees, for example, which is part of the technology and also has a positive impact by keeping this grass in certain bands. so if in an olive grove, there are areas at least every two or three rows that are kept grassed, this can have a beneficial effect on production and in any case, it will not affect production and it is not necessary to cut down trees and, in addition, the 7% can be covered. so seven percent on a plantation, where all the third or fourth rows are still weed, will be enough. this will be the only greening measure planned for such a farm, since tree plantations are recognized as having a positive impact on co2 reduction.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply. let's hope there's no felling of olive trees. i'll take this opportunity to ask you a quick question. the commissioner, yesterday's result on aid to the poor was important, a very important agreement was reached and we can go ahead with the 2012-13 programme and i thank you for that. i just want to know: the budget will be the traditional one, i.e. eur 500 million, or will it be reduced?
member of the commission. − for small farms, we have already proposed a simplified payment scheme which will allow member states to target these small farms by reducing bureaucracy compared to medium or large farms. secondly, with the rebalancing of subsidy levels within the same member state between different regions, if in spain a region currently receives, for historical reasons, subsidies that are lower than those of other regions, spain will be able to ensure a rebalancing of its payments by defining its subsidy levels at regional level.
member of the commission. - for the dairy sector, this proposal in the milk package will already allow producers to negotiate the price and quantities sold under contracts of a certain duration, and will therefore provide some security at market level. but the dairy sector will still be supported financially by direct subsidies under the common agricultural policy. for milk producers in less-favoured areas, member states still have the possibility of also granting coupled aid to the milk sector to maintain milk production in a certain region. but overall, if we are talking about the dairy sector - i said that when i presented the milk package - i will be ready to come in 2014 with a report to the council and parliament to analyse the situation in this sector before the abolition of quotas and, if necessary, we will present new proposals on this sector to prepare it well before the abolition of the milk quota system.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we should keep talking about this. we have now put forward a proposal for special location, both for the sparsely populated areas in the north and for the outermost regions, which is about equal treatment of the regions concerned. the negotiations in the coming weeks and months will show how sustainable this proposal is. i must remind you, however, that there have been and are general budgetary requirements which should have been taken into account. but i think there's gonna be more conversations here.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have not yet seen any evidence of a concentration of specific priorities. we will have to pursue this, because we have to implement the europe 2020 objectives, and this is only possible if it happens on a global scale. to ensure this, we have proposed that there should be a minimum allocation in the different areas for specific areas, such as the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation or also the promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency, so as to ensure that the major europe 2020 targets can be achieved.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
yeah, that's all right. if there are no problems, we can proceed to the roll-call vote.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
let us now proceed to the explanations of vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the complexity of the recognition process, due to the extremely high number of professions, hinders the movement of european professionals, with negative effects on growth and competitiveness. i therefore share the view of mrs mcclarkin, who is seeking to streamline administrative procedures by creating recording systems and an online portal containing all the information on procedures. i therefore believe that the proposal to extend the internal market information system to professions not yet covered by the services directive is valid and necessary. finally, i hope that the debate will be extended to other and wider categories of professions. i am referring in particular to professions closely linked to the business world, which at the same time often constitute an undue barrier to crossborder trade, as is the case with the legal and accounting professions. or
i think you are right, because the rules state that a request for an explanation of vote is no longer admissible after the first explanation has been made. so i think you are right, but we will consult the services to clarify this.
i repeat, i think you are right, but the services gave me a negative opinion. so we'll get this straight once and for all and then we'll make it public. or
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a system based on real and effective cooperation between member states requires that, within the framework of the relationship of trust that is being established between the member states themselves, the principle of freedom of movement must be concretely characterized by effective and incisive instruments. qualified mobility, which is mainly aimed at staff who can add value to their activities in another member state, is certainly to be interpreted in a favourable way. compulsory training, compulsory updating, but also a minimum standard of requirements to make the systems for accrediting this staff equivalent, seem absolutely necessary, especially in a sensitive and essential area such as public health, to avoid possible distortions in the application of a measure which we support and which we believe can achieve ambitious results in terms of achieving concrete and measurable objectives for the benefit of the patient, in the case of health, and for the benefit of the consumer in the case of other significant comparisons.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with today's debate parliament has laid the foundations for the future debate on the new directive which, as commissioner barnier announced yesterday, will be presented on 13 december. i welcome the report by the rapporteur, who, with the cooperation of all the rapporteurs, has succeeded in summarizing the reflection launched by the european commission last june with the green paper. i would like to stress two key elements in the report: language and education. i believe that, particularly for the health professions, it is necessary to introduce a thorough assessment of the level of language proficiency prior to authorization to practise the profession and to increase the minimum training requirements common to all member states, with a view to ensuring ever greater safety for european patients.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of modernity and the report by mr triantaphyllides, on which we voted in favour, require that the citizen as a consumer be placed at the centre of the community debate and remind us that the protection of his interests cannot remain a principle enshrined in the treaty but must be a concrete principle guiding the policies of the european union. a protected and informed consumer, made more aware and therefore able to make full use of the tools and resources at his disposal, and able to enjoy his rights to the full, must be the ultimate objective of the new european union strategy for consumer policy. the strategy must therefore be a broad, comprehensive approach, ranging from financial services to food, from child protection to advertising, and thus be able to make a significant contribution to europe's social and environmental objectives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly 20 years since the birth of the internet. the most selected information is now circulating on this network in an ever-increasing way and is readily available to anyone who is interested. online gambling services are a concrete way in which a very important industry in europe - the third largest in italy, with 75 billion euros - is fed on a daily basis. the principle of subsidiarity between member states applies. of course, we must fight against the incidents of illegal use of these assets. illegal online gambling, i.e. without a licence, must be punished because it is a transnational crime, also based on cooperation between member states. organized crime and money laundering are negative elements, at the same time reminding us how addiction can attack especially vulnerable people, addiction against which we must act with an interdisciplinary approach supported by health companies equipped for this purpose. it is nevertheless an important system which needs to be supported economically and supported within a regulatory framework in which the european union can provide added value.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's communication on online gambling is relevant. in fact, the development of this game and its horizontal expansion in various social sectors were beginning to be seriously concerned about the negative implications that it entailed, to the extent of involving minors and vulnerable adults in a high-risk activity, especially for children, a risk not only of an economic nature but above all a moral one. a recent written question i raised on video games concerned the problem of underage gambling and asked what action should be taken to remedy the anomaly. the commission's concerns on this matter and the resolution we voted for make clear the need for a proposal for a directive which sets out minimum rules applicable throughout europe, rules which are binding on all licensed operators offering online gambling services, and which leave member states free to add additional and improved rules. we therefore hope that the commission will submit a final proposal on this matter as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last five years gambling has spread throughout europe. in italy, according to state monopolies, from 2008 to 2009 online gambling grew by 153% and from 2009 to 2010 it increased by 29%. this is a worrying fact, which gives us a picture of the scale of the phenomenon. this calls for serious reflection. although online gambling is a matter for member states, common action is needed at european level to protect vulnerable consumers and to fight illegal gambling. the initiative report opens up to actions which i hope will be taken soon and i share the need for action on prevention to reduce the number of people suffering from gambling. the pilot projects in some countries could become european best practices to be replicated to monitor the phenomenon and raise awareness of responsible online gambling.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, online gambling is a growing market with a turnover of over 10 billion euros. at present, the regulation of the gambling market is a matter for the individual member states, but the most sensitive issue is the proliferation on the internet of an unregulated black market of considerable size, the main players of which are located in asia. the principle of subsidiarity for the benefit of the member states remains a cornerstone, but coordination at european level is necessary to combat external threats. these dangers concern not only consumer protection but also the very revenues of member states which rely heavily on taxation of so-called legal gambling. another significant point is the difficulty of identifying the identity and age of players via the internet. the commission and the member states must act without delay to protect european consumers from unscrupulous operators and the risk of addictive gambling.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the online gambling industry is constantly expanding with a turnover of several billion euros and many problematic issues to be solved. i therefore fully support the adoption of all measures aimed at protecting the integrity of sport, including through greater coordination between the member states and the various sports federations. last year, together with mr iacolino, we tabled a question calling for the european institutions to take decisive action to prevent fraud in sporting fixtures and to combat the possible interference of organised crime in european sport, and calling, as in the text voted on today, for a common definition of sporting fraud and for the harmonisation of sanctions at european level. that is why i voted in favour today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, protecting bees means protecting all pollinators, agriculture, the environment and the ecosystem. i have abstained on the resolution by the committee on agriculture because it is incomplete and ineffective. the use of neonicotinoid pesticides to treat maize seeds in agriculture has resulted in the destruction of millions of bees. in italy we have lost 30 to 70% of the beehives, with serious damage to beekeepers, bees and the environment. italy has banned the use of these pesticides for two years, with two important results: the recovery of the bee population and the demonstration that the production of maize without pesticides has not decreased. today was a missed opportunity to call for a ban on neonicotinoid pesticides at european level. europe must do more and with more conviction to defend this most important natural heritage. albert einstein said , " it 's not about money . "if all the bees died, man would have four years left to live".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, apiculture is a sector which employs a large number of people, some 600,000, and which is a valuable bulwark for agro-environmental biodiversity. i believe it is essential to protect the specific features of beekeeping in the various member states and to promote vocational training measures aimed at raising the technical and scientific level of the human resources involved, both in the agricultural and the market phase, through information and product marketing measures aimed at placing honey in its full right as one of the basic foods of a healthy diet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the community's farmers, and it is therefore necessary to draw up a strategic plan for their recovery which takes account of the many factors, from institutional and administrative to veterinary, which are responsible for the growth which all european farmers expect. the report adopted today is moving in that direction and i voted strongly in favour of it, also in the interests of all european beekeepers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has focused attention on the beekeeping sector, which is crucial in european agriculture for its contribution to the maintenance of biodiversity and is a source of income for some 600 000 operators in the sector in the european union. i think that the programme launched by the european commission to monitor the health of bees is useful in order to identify the reasons for the increase in the mortality rate in recent years. the impact of pesticide use on bee health needs to be further explored. i voted in favour of the report and i regret that the reference to a correlation between certain pesticides and bee mortality was not retained, as the rapporteur proposed. i ask the european commission to provide more financial support for the beekeeping sector in the new cap 2014-2020.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is currently working on the content of the new common agricultural policy. i believe that the beekeeping sector is an integral part of our agriculture. in fact, 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on pollination by bees. it is important, in order to preserve bee health, to implement specific and effective interventions not only at national but also at european level, in such a way as to ensure a good harmonisation of the surveillance system. a further problem is related to the misuse and excessive use of pesticides which can have negative consequences and cause excessive mortality of bees and which are tolerated differently by the member states, thus causing distortions of competition in the internal market. in support of and in defence of our quality products, i support the request that the country of origin and provenance be indicated on the label. our fight has always been to inform and protect the consumer. the risk of gmos in agriculture must also be taken seriously. the european court of justice recently ruled that beekeepers have a right to compensation for damage they have suffered.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i was one of the signatories of the alternative resolution on bee health because the report voted on in the committee on agriculture rejected in its entirety the recommendations contained in the opinion of the envi report, which i was the shadow rapporteur for. in fact, bee mortality is a growing problem, and scientific evidence is abundantly clear about the damage caused by pesticides and monocultures. to understand this, it is enough to consider that there are areas of the world, such as some valleys in china, where pollination is now done by hand precisely because of the misuse of certain types of pesticides over time. the report adopted by the european parliament today, however, does not take a position on this issue. there is no objective criticism of pesticide toxicity, in particular the ban on systemic neurotoxins, no guidance for the beekeeping industry on gmo contamination of honey products, no guidance on the interaction between agriculture and beekeeping, no criticism of monocultures, and no recognition that large-scale changes in agriculture, including crop rotation to reduce pesticide use, are needed to reverse the sharp decline in pollinator production.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr simon's report because i fully share the urgency of making the application of the state aid rules to services of general economic interest clearer and more direct. in particular, i think there is a widespread consensus on the urgency of identifying de minimis measures for services of general interest which do not produce substantial effects on trade between member states. in view of this, i have some reservations about the approach taken by the commission. i believe that the overabundance of texts, between communications, decisions and regulations, risks confusing the regulatory framework and making it confusing and difficult to understand rather than contributing to a real and functional update of existing legislation which we need.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 80 million people in europe are at risk of poverty. the economic crisis has aggravated this situation, exposing the weaker sections of society even more. i therefore voted in favour of mr daerden's report, in which i particularly appreciated the completeness and the multiplicity of the aspects dealt with for an effective fight against poverty. i am referring in particular to the deepening of cooperation between states, the definition of common principles for establishing the so-called 'basket' of essential goods and services accessible to all and the fight against child poverty. i also share the commission's approach, particularly its priority to make better use of the structural funds, which can play a key role in developing innovative approaches and specific programmes to combat poverty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic financial crisis we are experiencing has further aggravated the situation of millions of european citizens who live in poverty or in conditions of semi-poverty and marginalization. the fight against early school leaving, easier access to and better use of european funds, and a more careful and efficient use of social security are just some of the steps forward to achieve the ambitious goal of reducing the number of people living in precarious conditions by 20 million by 2020. for these reasons i voted in favour, knowing that only a joint and well-coordinated effort will reduce the number of people living in need in the european union.
in writing. - my vote on mr lehne's report is in favour. it is indeed correct to replace the current supplementary legal basis by the ordinary legislative procedure. the proposed amendment is precisely in that direction.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, since the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the coordination of safeguards which, in the member states, are required of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, contains inaccuracies such as the wording, the use of appropriate adaptation markers and shading, and since the proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than those indicated, i am voting in favour of a recodification of the existing texts.
in writing. - i believe it is important at this time that the european union accedes to the 2002 protocol to the athens convention of 1974. my vote is in favour, i agree with the choice of the mixed agreement and the reasons for excluding articles 10 and 11.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the following draft decision, which is concerned with accession to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, aims to ensure, in accordance with sound criteria, the aspects relating to liability and minimum insurance obligations. insufficient regulation on these issues led the commission to propose in 2003 that the european community become a contracting party to the 2002 protocol and that the member states do the same. agreeing on the importance of respecting the fundamental elements, such as liability in the event of the fault or negligence of the carrier and compulsory insurance, i vote in favour of the draft decision.
in writing. - i believe that the 2002 protocol to the athens convention of 1974 on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea can remedy certain shortcomings in the existing international liability regime for carriers. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the recommendation by mr lehne is a useful tool to help us understand the decision to separate accession to articles 10 and 11 from the rest of the protocol. those articles concern matters relating to jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments, the relevant legal basis for those articles being article 81. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, supporting the idea that the 2002 protocol to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers by sea, 1974, is inadequate, as it contains certain shortcomings in the existing regime on international carrier liability, and arguing that as regards transport matters the committee on transport has competence for the purpose of preparing the legislative resolution of the european parliament, i consider it my duty to vote in favour of this draft decision on council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. the agreement will allow for the gradual opening of the air routes market and their transport capacity, and will allow for the alignment of jordanian legislation with european legislation in the field of air transport safety and air traffic management. this agreement was concluded between jordan and the eu with a view to its extension to the other eu partner countries in the mediterranean area. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the agreement.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is clear from the report that the agreement will be able to open the market gradually on a reciprocal basis, establish fair and non-discriminatory conditions on the basis of the principles of the eu treaties and align jordan's air transport legislation with that of the eu in several respects. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. − we welcome the conclusion of a much more ambitious global agreement, which replaces all previous bilateral agreements and provides for the establishment of a euro-mediterranean airspace between the european union and jordan. this agreement is to be seen as an important element in the development of the european neighbourhood policy and will guarantee fair and non-discriminatory conditions for economic operators on the basis of the principles of the eu treaties. by introducing uniform conditions for air carriers in the 27 member states, it will produce a general benefit for all, regardless of their nationality. the commission notes that the agreement between the european union and jordan on the establishment of a joint aviation safety management system (jasm) was signed on 27 june 2014 and that the agreement between the european union and jordan on the establishment of a joint safety management system (jasm) was signed on 27 june 2014.
in writing. - the european union is jordan's largest trading partner after saudi arabia, which is why the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement with jordan is of enormous importance for the european union, and also for the development of the european neighbourhood policy. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the importance of airspace in the european emergency is a challenge as well as an opening to more services for the community. the commission notes that the agreement between the airlines and the airlines is not a legally binding agreement, but is a legally binding agreement between the airlines and the airlines. the agreement aims to achieve a very ambitious global agreement replacing the 27 bilateral agreements with the establishment of a euro-mediterranean airspace between the european union and jordan, allowing any european air carrier to provide its services between any point in the european union and jordan. considering that this initiative can open up the air transport market gradually and on a reciprocal basis, as well as guaranteeing fair and non-discriminatory conditions for economic operators, i am pleased to vote in favour of the following agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because i consider it very important that it should go beyond the existing bilateral agreements to include a global agreement establishing a euro-mediterranean airspace between the european union and jordan. this will make it possible to achieve uniform conditions for air carriers in the 27 member states so that everyone can benefit, regardless of nationality. the commission notes that the agreement between the european union and jordan on the establishment of a common aviation security policy is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the rights of the air carriers operating in the territory of the european union. this will now allow the market for routes to be opened gradually and on a reciprocal basis, while ensuring fair and non-discriminatory conditions for economic operators on the basis of the principles of the eu treaties.
in writing. − the conclusion of a euro-mediterranean air transport agreement with jordan has long been a priority for the european union and is an important element in the development of the european neighbourhood policy. the agreement, which is in the interest of european citizens and businesses, introduces uniform conditions for air carriers from the 27 member states flying to jordan in accordance with the european neighbourhood policy. according to external studies carried out for the commission, the euro-mediterranean agreement in the field of air transport with jordan would result in an increase of at least 54,000 passengers, as well as in clear economic benefits for consumers amounting to at least eur 30 million in the first year of effective market opening. this follows a similar agreement, which was negotiated with morocco in 2006, and which resulted in a significant increase in air services between the european union and morocco.
in writing. - i believe that the agreement under consideration will make it possible to extend to georgia the rules of the single market in air transport in force in the european union. the application of the existing rules on aviation safety and air traffic management to georgia will therefore lead to the mutual opening of markets without discrimination between airlines and airlines.
in writing. − this recommendation is very important in achieving the objective of creating a common airspace between the european union and its neighbours. i welcome the fact that this agreement would generate benefits for consumers of some eur 17 million. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in response to the european union's neighbourhood policy which provides for the creation of a common airspace between the european union and its neighbours, and considering the importance of air policy in the context of the european contingent, the draft decision of the council and the representatives of the governments of the member states of the european union represents the response to the current needs. the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia, replacing the 27 bilateral agreements of the individual member states, is part of a development framework of mutual market opening, as well as ensuring the consolidation of the european union air carriers already present on the market and the entry of new operators. i am pleased with the work done and with the important economic aspect as well as the community dimension, and i therefore vote in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this international agreement because i believe it is capable of regulating air links between the european union, its 27 member states and georgia. this will create a common airspace between the european union and georgia, replacing the current bilateral agreements. the agreement will extend to georgia the rules of the single air transport market currently in force and create a uniform framework for all air carriers of the union and georgia, which is a further step towards establishing increasingly solid and concrete neighbourly relations.
in writing. - the text of this agreement on some points includes some georgian proposals and requests for closer relations with the european union which i consider excessive, taking into account both the country's geographical situation (the target of the european neighbourhood policy) and the economic and political situation in the country (further progress is needed in the field of democracy, the rule of law and the economy). the resolution calls for the inclusion in the agreement of a reference to article 49 teu (accession) as well as recognition of the country's european identity. given the current impasse in europe and the general discontent with the entry of many countries into the last enlargements of 2004 and 2007, it seems to me inappropriate at this stage to raise the possibility of further enlargement, even in the long term. such an initiative would also differentiate the enp from its other eastern and mediterranean partners and undermine its unity. as regards the hoped-for start of trade negotiations for the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), the conclusions on the european neighbourhood policy adopted by the foreign affairs council in june envisaged that negotiations could start before the end of the year, provided that sufficient progress was made in implementing the remaining preconditions identified by the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement on a common airspace between the 27 member states and georgia. the international agreement is part of the european union's neighbourhood policy, which has already seen the ratification of a number of agreements similar to the one voted on today, and aims to create a safer airspace for european citizens and their neighbours.
in writing. - it is undeniable that this suspension will have some effects, not necessarily positive ones on the resources of the union, but it is nevertheless a necessary measure to create jobs in a region which is at the very borders of the european union. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in order to promote local development, employment and the competitiveness of local operators, the following proposal for a regulation provides for a temporary suspension of common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products into the canary islands. this policy will have an immediate impact in the regions concerned and will help smes and local farmers to invest and create jobs, but although it is not possible to assess the impact of the measures described at global level, the measures will still have an impact on the union's own resources/revenue.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is important, in the international context we are living in, not to neglect the peripheral and outermost areas of the european union, which are suffering more than others from the effects of the economic crisis. the proposed suspension of customs duties on imports of certain products into the canary islands will help local smes and farmers to invest and create jobs in a region which, as a result of the crisis and a reduced tourist flow, is in a situation close to economic recession. i am therefore in favour of measures to stimulate economic activity and to consolidate employment in the medium term, thus helping to promote economic recovery in the peripheral areas of the eu. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the březina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community because i believe that co-financed research is a key instrument in the development of increasingly safe and efficient technologies for nuclear energy production. the programme is an important contribution to the innovation union initiative, by funding pre-commercial research and facilitating technology transfer processes between academia and industry. in addition, significantly increasing the overall level of sustainability of nuclear energy would help to achieve the energy efficiency target that europe has set as a priority. nuclear energy plays an important role in achieving the objectives set out in the european strategic energy plan (set plan), in particular in reducing carbon emissions, increasing security of supply, reducing dependence on the supply of energy from politically unstable regions of the world and increasing industrial competitiveness. i therefore share the position expressed in this document, which stresses the need to support research and development activities with adequate funding in order to improve safety and efficiency in the nuclear power generation sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the future programme on atomic energy and research and training activities in the nuclear sector. i believe that further research and development by european university research centres is needed. through the framework programme, euratom will promote various research activities in the field of nuclear energy (fusion and fission) and radiation protection. the funds will be used to finance iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) which will demonstrate the scientific and practical feasibility of fusion energy. i would like to emphasize personally that these activities are in line with the objectives of improving the safety of nuclear fission and other issues related to radiation emitted by industry and medicine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr březina's report. i agree with the proposed amendments to the commission proposal. it is right to stress and urge the use of the principles of simplicity, stability, transparency, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust.
in writing. − having regard to the fundamental aspects of the proposal for a decision, such as the composition of the committee ensuring a reasonable balance between women and men and between member states carrying out nuclear research and training, the attention given to the definition of contractual provisions to reduce the risk of non-compliance and the redistribution of risks and costs over time, and the initiative to design a new satellite experiment to be carried out under the 8th framework programme to ensure its expected performance while limiting operational risks and costs, i am voting in favour of the abovementioned proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented by indirect action and the recent implementation of the european community framework programme for research and training in the nuclear sector (2012-2013);
in writing. − the proposal accompanying this report is aimed at the adoption of a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented by indirect actions and implementing the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013). it covers fusion, fission and radiation protection research. the main objective is to ensure the continuation of eu-funded research in these areas for an additional two years, in line with the successful activities carried out in the period 2007-2011. to this end, the proposal sets out in more detail the scope of r & d activities.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the report by the honourable member it seems to me that the new proposals should introduce some very positive elements in the field of insolvency, such as the creation of a european insolvency register, and above all increase the degree of harmonisation and protection for creditors. so my vote is in favour.
in writing. − it is important to emphasise that recommendations must respect the principle of subsidiarity and the fundamental rights of citizens. in addition, the financial implications of the requested proposal must be covered by appropriate budget appropriations. mr lehne's report follows this line and i shall therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. − considering that in a time of considerable financial instability short selling could exacerbate the downward spiral in share prices, particularly of financial institutions, threatening financial soundness and creating systemic risks, the measure put forward in 2008 to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or all categories of securities is necessary. in the absence of a european legislative framework, this regulation has led to the creation of different legislation for the 27 member states. however, it should be considered that in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market by improving its conditions of operation and to ensure a high level of investor and consumer protection, a common legislative framework should be established on the rules and powers relating to short selling and credit default swaps. in the light of the foregoing, i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation
in writing. − differences between national insolvency laws often create competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for companies with crossborder activities, which could hamper the successful outcome of restructuring operations of insolvent companies. the conditions under which insolvency proceedings may be opened should therefore be harmonised at european level. the legal affairs committee has rightly identified four points for future legislative initiatives. in addition to harmonisation, where possible, a revision of the insolvency procedure regulation is desirable where still needed and where practice has shown the possibility of improvement. the third point is that cooperation between trustees and general administrative cooperation should be strengthened in cases where companies are part of a group of companies which has become insolvent. finally, it is suggested that a european insolvency register be set up. the recommendations are intended to provide the commission with guidelines for reform of the matter to eliminate disparities between national legislation.
in writing. - mr president, we have a challenge, and that is to tackle demographic change in a concrete way, through targeted policies and a virtuous allocation of financial resources. unfortunately, we are witnessing an ageing european population: the population growth rate is among the lowest in the world, while the birth rate is below the replacement threshold, at 2.1 children per woman on average. demographic change will have a decisive impact on the political, social and economic situation, particularly as a result of the crisis, the age of retirement and the large migratory flows to europe's borders. in addition, cities will face high population density, while in some 20 regions the population decline is estimated to exceed 10%. there is no time to lose, we need targeted policies, efforts and concrete and visible progress in a short time, for example by acting on women's and youth employment and the integration of people with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because demographic change is creating new possibilities for some regions in the world and, instead of being viewed purely as a threat, it should also be seen as an opportunity. the support provided by the cohesion policy instruments should be carefully examined and exploited in an appropriate manner. the impact of demographic change varies substantially from region to region, depending on whether it is rapid or slow and whether the region concerned is a region of net immigration or of shrinking population. for this reason, this text calls on the member states and regions to consider the divergent development levels of the regions and take into account demographic indicators when allocating and distributing eu structural funds and defining impact indicators. furthermore, demographic developments in the regions should be made comparable, and exchanges of best practices between member states, regions and local communities should be encouraged.
in writing. - demographic change in the european union is a fact. its management, which will decisively alter the political, social and economic situation in europe, will certainly be one of the central tasks of the future. europe has the world's oldest population and the lowest population growth. it should also be noted that in most member states the birth rate is below the replacement threshold of 2.1 children per woman and in some cases is even falling in the face of an increase in life expectancy. regional policy, in my view, is an essential tool for dealing with the demographic change. member states and regions should be able to make greater use of the structural funds to develop strategies to successfully meet the challenge of demographic change. the commission, in the conclusions of its fifth cohesion report, stresses the importance of demographic change. however, it should see this change as an essential priority for the development of europe, and at the same time the member states and regions should recognise this problem as a horizontal priority to be included in their operational programmes.
in writing. - i welcome the work of the rapporteur, for whom i voted in favour. the demographic shift now under way in the eu and how to manage it is one of the central challenges of our immediate future. the ageing of the european population is advancing and population growth is the lowest in the world. in most member states the birth rate is below the replacement threshold of 2.1 children per woman. regional policy must therefore become an essential tool for dealing with the demographic change. the structural funds must be better adapted to the challenges of demographic change, especially by also using demographic indicators in the allocation of funds. in addition, in response to these challenges, efforts need to be focused on increasing the employment rate of women in the labour force and combating youth unemployment. finally, the development of demographic trends must be properly statistically assessed, thereby improving coordination between the relevant services at all levels, including through the exchange of good practice. effective management of demographic change can no longer be a threat but an opportunity for europe itself.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that demographic change should not be seen as a problem but as a great opportunity for reform in the member states. the increase in life expectancy and the ageing of the population are two of the major challenges of demographic change today and have an impact on the political, social and economic situation of each country. in this respect, structural policy must address these challenges by focusing on the needs of the elderly, children and families, the need to employ skilled labour, focusing on increasing female employment, and the use of the structural funds to be adapted to different regional situations. i also believe that it is very important to strengthen assistance to regions suffering from depopulation and ageing to ensure that they are able to benefit from the structural funds. in this regard, it may be useful to promote the role of entrepreneurship and innovation, social infrastructure and integrated urban development. i hope that all the member states will be able to adopt differentiated support strategies, but at the same time coordinated by the various competent authorities. the allocation of the structural funds must take account of the different levels of development of the regions.
in writing. − demographic change as highlighted in the fifth cohesion report represents one of the central challenges for the future of the european socioeconomic system, a challenge that invests in a broad territorial context and has a profound impact on the management of services and infrastructure. without detracting from the commitment of the individual member states, this challenge - which can become an opportunity - directly affects the european institutions and, in particular, regional development policies, characterized by differentiated strategies and adapted to meet the needs and requirements of areas with a positive population balance and those with a declining population, respectively, as well as the different needs of urban and rural areas. in response to these challenges, the european funds (both the erdf and the esf) represent a potential to be fully exploited to ensure the rebalancing of needs and, to this end, the prospect of using specific demographic indicators in the allocation of european funds as well as in the redistribution of funding at the level of individual member states is positively assessed. the vote in favour calls for policies which will link the effects of demographic change with the fight against old and new poverty.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the different rates of development and changes in the lifestyles of our societies have led to profound changes in the demographic pyramid. while the increase in life expectancy is certainly a positive aspect of these changes, the same cannot be said for others, particularly those affecting young people and women. in fact, labour policies which have not had a profound impact on training (including university and post-university training) and on a greater orientation towards integration into the world of work, or on accompanying policies for maintaining employment and a greater reconciliation with family needs, have proved inadequate in favour of these groups and sectors of the population. in this connection, the initiatives to be strengthened through a more efficient use of the structural funds could include, on the one hand, ensuring that the services supporting guidance and the meeting of demand and supply of work are adequate, operational and easily accessible to the beneficiaries, and on the other hand, reinforcing family support policies (including the increased use of public or private day nurseries and flexible work organisation). the report we have adopted is in line with this.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in life expectancy, which affects almost all the european population, requires us to think about new challenges and to seize the opportunities, not just to avoid the risks. demographic change requires reflection and new strategies with regard to the european structural funds for the development of urban and rural areas. the evaluation of erdf policies and, in general, those relating to mobility and social cohesion, in the light of new data on life expectancy and birth rates, is as necessary as ever, although it must, at the same time, be carefully weighed in the light of the competences of individual member states and regions. the westphal report, for which i voted in favour, reflects the need to tackle the issue of demographic change in its diversity and complexity, bearing in mind its economic, employment and mobility implications, which are closely linked to the citizens of the european union.
in writing. − the demographic shift in the european union is a fact and managing it is one of the key challenges for the future. we have, in fact, the oldest population and the lowest population growth in the world. in most member states, the birth rate is below the threshold for population renewal. many people see demographic change as a problem. we agree with our rapporteur, who in this report considers this to be a reductive approach and would like to see the opportunities that demographic developments can offer europe taken into account. the problem is not demographic change as such, but the hesitant attitude of the political class and society towards this change. member states and regions can use the structural funds to develop targeted strategies. we believe that in order to respond to the challenges of demographic change, the first thing to do is to establish the change itself in a statistically appropriate way. in a second phase, coordination between the relevant services at all levels will need to be improved and examples of good practice exchanged between the 27 member states.
in writing. - it is urgent that proactive measures be put in place to prevent the negative effects of demographic change and to allow for a strengthening of technical assistance to the regions most affected by depopulation and ageing. i fully agree that the balance between work and family life must be improved. concrete support for families is an essential condition for helping to raise the birth rate in the member states. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the report on demographic change addresses the crucial issue of the progressive ageing of the european population by articulating a concrete proposal based on the belief that it is possible to reverse the trend in the long term and take advantage of it in the short term. the european union cannot shirk its responsibility to govern this phenomenon, since it will determine the future economic and political structure of a united europe. the transversal effects of structural policy on social dynamics are the basis for supporting the appropriateness of using structural policy to promote positive action. six priority areas are suggested in the report to ensure the protection of the rights of all generations: children, youth, women and the elderly. the suggestions for the use of the erdf and the esf should be taken into account in the discussion on the legislative package on the new cohesion policy. the theme chosen is fully consistent with the objective of promoting social inclusion identified as one of the three priorities of the eu 2020 strategy. that is why i have supported the excellent work done by mrs westphal in committee and in the house.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, agreeing with the idea that managing demographic change in the eu is one of the key challenges for the future, considering that many people perceive demographic change as a problem, even though there are opportunities that demographic developments can offer europe, and considering the six priority areas in the report as valuable, i am voting in favour of this report in order to ensure that structural policy addresses the enormous challenges of demographic change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the demographic change in the eu is a fact and that managing it is one of the central tasks for the future of the old continent. the ageing of europe's population is advancing: we have the oldest population and the lowest population growth in the world. although many people perceive demographic change as a problem, i believe that this view is reductive and i hope that the opportunities that demographic developments can offer europe will be taken into account. the problem is not demographic change as such, but the hesitant attitude of the political class and society towards this change.
in writing. - according to eurostat, no eu country has a positive replacement rate. only a few, including britain, france and ireland, have a population balance with a progressive upward trend. indeed, the european countries with a negative demographic balance - germany, italy and spain - have reached what some call the point of no return. according to some demographers, the latter are in a "low fertility trap". the reasons for low birth rates lie in the fact that childlessness and one-child families are becoming the norm, with the resulting cultural institutionalization of 'zero growth'. in the developed world, delaying childbearing is one of the main causes of low fertility, while greater access to contraceptives has allowed the adult population to exercise greater control over the timing of births. an increasing number of men and women are seeking to establish themselves in the world of work, postponing the conception of children. the possible dramatic repercussions of demographic change are already known and are many. i would like to mention one of them, which is affecting our national systems, namely the ageing of the population. the result is that an increasing number of older people are dependent on an ever-shrinking workforce.
in writing. − in the current climate of crisis and financial emergency in the eu, it is important to regulate and standardise certain aspects of member states' legislation on short selling and credit default swaps. we must give markets and investors a coherent framework and thus ensure effective and prompt supervision against the speculative phenomena that have fuelled the economic crisis. the proposal which is now being voted on contains restrictions on the sale and purchase of financial products and derivatives on markets which, as they stand, are instruments in the hands of speculators intent on damaging sovereign debt securities and profiting from the downward spiral in prices. the possibility of restrictions on short selling on a temporary basis should also be provided for, as provided for in the text, and in particular cases cooperation between the different national authorities responsible for market surveillance should be encouraged through the coordination of the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis is caused by the lack of adequate regulation of financial markets. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'credit default swaps' to cover short-term credit default swaps. the council's unambitious line has been corrected in some fundamental respects thanks to the role of parliament. we have introduced a ban on naked short selling, i.e. the sale of securities not actually held, which includes a ban on buying cdss without holding the relevant government securities. in addition, the information and transparency obligations imposed on operators will enable national supervisors to be aware of any pressure on a security, so as to prevent risks effectively. the european parliament can therefore only express its satisfaction at the adoption of this regulation, which, although it is a first step and a mere piece in a more general work of regulating the financial markets, represents an important step forward and a sure contribution to their more correct functioning, especially as regards sovereign debts.
in writing. - i am in favour of the canfin report. i think it is essential, in view of the historical moment we are in, that this regulation should be adopted. we must avoid that the different measures adopted by the member states create obstacles to the internal market. it is urgent to ensure the proper functioning of financial markets by raising the level of investor and consumer protection.
in writing. - i wanted to express my positive opinion of this report, since it serves to better regulate some important aspects of the financial markets. firstly, short selling, which is a potentially useful tool, but which must be used with extreme caution and care, otherwise there is a risk of a financial jungle which is dangerous for everyone, investors and savers. similarly, it was right to regulate credit default swaps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. we cannot allow financial speculation to bear its damaging fruits on the real economy as a whole.
in writing. - i congratulate mr pascal canfin on his excellent work. the new eu rules adopted today will impose greater transparency and ban the use of certain types of credit default swaps (cds), a financial product used as insurance against bankruptcy. these rules are proof that the eu can act against speculation when there is political will. the legislation will make it impossible to buy cdss for the sole purpose of speculating on a country's default. for example, buying greek cds will henceforth only be possible if the buyer already owns greek government bonds or a stake in a sector heavily dependent on the performance of these bonds, such as a greek bank (in the event of a greek bankruptcy, greek banks would certainly suffer significantly).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that it is essential in this difficult economic climate to restrict short selling and the trading of so-called credit default swaps, financial products used as insurance against bankruptcy. the new european rules must impose greater transparency and make it more difficult to speculate on a country's default. the aim of this text was to ban the trading of these financial products 'off the shelf'. in addition, from today, more stringent information requirements will be introduced. in fact, the lack of information was one of the biggest obstacles to supervisors' work in the pre-crisis period.
in writing. − to end the current fragmentation situation in which some member states have adopted divergent measures, it is important to address in a harmonised way the potential risks arising from short selling and credit default swaps. in the event of a significant increase in the price of a financial instrument on a trading venue, which is clearly disproportionate to previous values, competent authorities should be able to temporarily prohibit the sale of that instrument on that venue. the rules suggested by the committee on economic and monetary affairs are designed to address the risks identified, increase market liquidity and allow investors to act when they believe a security is overvalued, so that short selling leads to a more efficient system of securities price formation, but taking into account differences between member states and the potential economic impact of the rules, and without unduly reducing the benefits of short selling for the quality and efficiency of markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs nedelcheva's report because i believe it is of fundamental importance to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops, as proposed by the commission. this updating will allow these crops to be better aligned with the current needs of users and the market. i have also decided to support this report because it is intended to give particular weight to the objective of simplification and the need to reduce the administrative burden on respondents.
in writing. - my vote on mrs nedelcheva's report is in favour. the commission's proposal to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops, adapting them to the current needs of users and the market, is certainly to be supported. i agree with the rapporteur on the amendments proposed, which certainly improve the text.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops, adapting them to the current needs of market users, not only simplifies the data in order to make them more usable to users, but also reduces the administrative burden, given the change in the accuracy of the data themselves. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
in writing. the report by mr nedelcheva on european statistics on permanent crops was voted on in plenary today. the commission proposal aims to update the existing legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops by adapting it to the current needs of users and the market. they concern the use of statistical data on permanent crops as a reliable basis for making informed decisions on european production and the european market. the proposal aims to simplify the breakdown of user data by adapting it to the needs of statistics through the cancellation of annual statistics on changes in plantations and the detailed breakdown of wine production.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague mariya nedelcheva on the inclusion in this report of a number of paragraphs which i voted in favour of, in particular on simplification and reduction of the administrative burden for respondents to permanent crop statistics. the commission proposal is needed at a stage of review of the agricultural market system. i would like to recall that in recent years the standing committee on agricultural statistics at eurostat has been engaged in a wide-ranging debate on the future of agricultural statistics, and in particular structural statistics, which have the decennial census as their main reference point. the main challenges facing statistical bodies in the future will be: the enlargement of the european union, which has further increased the differences between national farms in terms of land structure and crop systems; the major revision of the common agricultural policy, which is changing the framework of statistical information needs for both the commission and national and regional governments; the need to make the european system of agricultural statistics more homogeneous with that of economic statistics on the one hand and more flexible to new information needs in the field of environmental protection and food safety on the other.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr březina's report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community because i believe it is important that the european union continues to finance research and training activities in the nuclear sector. i share the aims of the programme, which are to improve the safety, reliability and efficiency of nuclear power generation, and i welcome the reference to the applicability of these results also to the field of medicine and industry, particularly in the light of the european industrial initiative for sustainable nuclear energy (esnii), which is part of the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan). given the importance of the nuclear activities of the joint research centre (jrc) in the areas of control and non-proliferation, safety of installations, waste management and environmental radioactivity, it is also important that adequate funding is provided to ensure that they are maintained at a level of excellence. similarly, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient resources are available at the completion of the iter project in order to ensure that it can be completed satisfactorily and economically.
in writing. − there is a need to pay greater attention and allocate larger budgetary allocations to subsidiary initiatives than to basic nuclear research, especially as regards investment in human capital and actions to avoid the risk of skills shortages in the coming years. this amendment is a summary of the appropriate method to be followed for this type of activity. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of the larger budget allocation to subsidiary initiatives than to basic nuclear research, especially as regards investment in human capital and actions to avoid the risk of skills shortages in the coming years, i assessed the proposal for a decision of primary importance. although i cannot share the full report, i would like to take this opportunity to express my support for the framework programme (2012-2013) to be simpler, more stable and more transparent.
in writing. − in the current euratom programme, the programme for direct actions of the joint research centre gives priority to nuclear waste management, nuclear safety and controls. this programme focuses on research in the field of waste management and safety of nuclear systems and aims to increase scientific knowledge in order to ensure safe and efficient use of this energy. the main requirement is the responsible use of nuclear energy in order to protect european citizens and safeguard the environment.
in writing. − at a time of financial and market stress and in view of the enormous expenditure on nuclear research, attention should be paid to the definition of contractual provisions designed to reduce the risk of non-compliance and to the redistribution of risks and costs over time. to ensure the safety of existing nuclear power plants, it is necessary to monitor the state of the facilities and invest in research to extend their lifetime. at present, the average lifetime of the current generation of nuclear power plants in operation in europe is 40 years. the duration may be extended where appropriate. generation iii and generation iv systems are aimed at a lifetime of 60 years, minimising ageing-related operating and maintenance costs. the objective of the framework programme is to establish a sound scientific and technical basis for demonstrating the safety of fuel disposal technologies. another key aspect concerns the transparency of public information on atomic energy and the nuclear sector. citizens must be informed about research and experimentation methods and specific actions will be taken to ensure the effectiveness of the communication programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr březina on the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the actions provided for in the framework programme of the european atomic energy community because i am convinced that it is necessary to involve academic circles in the nuclear research and development plans financed by the european union. joint research and training in this area is essential to promote competitiveness, economic growth and scientific excellence at european level. the contribution of these actors is essential for the development of new technologies that consume fewer resources, are safer and more efficient, and reduce carbon emissions. the coordination and knowledge sharing also falls within the framework of the euratom safety programme and will therefore have the opportunity to demonstrate the effective application of the results of research and development activities in nuclear power stations as a result of a better understanding of the causes of accidents and possible solutions. i also believe that europe must encourage contacts between academia and industry so that research activities produce economically beneficial results, thus creating a large market for the nuclear sector.
in writing. − the 2012-13 framework programme should help to achieve the innovation union, which is one of the most important initiatives in the europe 2020 strategy. i think that mr březina's report is in that direction, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of innovation in the europe 2020 strategy, i consider the 2012-13 framework programme to be a great lever to achieve the objectives of the strategy by strengthening competition for scientific excellence and accelerating the implementation of key innovations in the field of nuclear energy, in particular fusion and nuclear safety, while helping to address the challenges posed by the energy sector and climate change. i therefore feel that i should like to vote in favour of the following proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - this proposal lays down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results. more attention and budgetary allocations should be given to subsidiary initiatives compared to core nuclear research, especially in terms of investments in human capital and actions to avoid the risk of skills shortages in the coming years and the consequent loss of leadership for the union. the process of technology transfer between universities and industry will be facilitated, with an emphasis on training, in order to promote competitiveness in the nuclear sector and the creation of a new high-tech industry sector that will lead to the creation of new jobs in a wide range of disciplines.
in writing. - mr president, i abstained on the vote on the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications because, despite the great effort made by my colleagues to raise some of the problems relating to the application of the directive, it was not possible to discuss them, despite the fact that the documentation was sent to the meeting of the coordinators of the working group on the economy and environment. although there are still obstacles to the entry of professionals into the eu, i believe that it is good, on the one hand, to proceed cautiously with the extension of the recognition of qualifications obtained in third countries, as these may not guarantee an adequate level of professionalism, and on the other hand, to consider in the current debate also professions other than those in the health sector for which there are problems in the application of the directive.
in writing. the aim of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is to ensure that european citizens are able to practise their profession in countries other than the one in which they obtained their qualifications. at present, the complexity of the process of recognition of professional qualifications, combined with the extremely high number of regulated professions, especially in our country, is hindering the entry of european professionals and, consequently, restricting competition within the regulated professions with obvious negative effects on the competitiveness of european enterprises. i therefore share the call in this report to simplify the administrative procedures for the recognition of professions by making full use of new information technology. in my view, the creation of registration systems and an online portal containing all the information on procedures could, on the one hand, speed up the processes of recognition of professional qualifications and, on the other hand, allow for a more effective flow of information between the administrations of the member states, reducing the barriers to entry for foreign professionals. i also welcome the proposal in this report to extend the internal market information system to professions not yet covered by the so-called 'services directive' as this system has proved to be a very efficient and inexpensive tool.
in writing. the report presents a positive and convincing picture of the recognition of professional qualifications in europe. i have noted in the report the right caution with regard to the delicate steps called for by the directive, such as the question of language skills, professional qualifications acquired in third countries and above all the recognition of qualifications in the very delicate health sector. the text we are going to vote on is balanced and far-sighted and encourages the commission to continue its work on the recognition of professional qualifications in order to make the community regulatory framework simpler, clearer, less burdensome for end users and attentive to the most sensitive aspects. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i think the rapporteur has done a very good job, but the premises are wrong: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. this is all the more important as the recognition of professional qualifications is of fundamental importance for the growth of competitiveness, the economy and the internal market more generally. i believe that there is a need for greater cooperation between the competent authorities, through new communication technologies that streamline and speed up the processes of recognition of professional qualifications, thus reducing barriers to entry. in my view, a better balance between labour mobility and the quality of recognised vocational qualifications is a key factor for economic development and sustainable growth, which is crucial in a time of such deep crisis. it is therefore necessary to remove all obstacles which could jeopardize the principle of free competition on the markets.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am not in favour of the report. the report by mrs mcclarkin highlights the choice of rapporteur, which has proved to be a guarantee of achieving a balanced text and not subject to overly pretentious and, consequently, impractical references. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. − according to a recent eurobarometer survey, the prospect of working abroad is an attractive prospect for more than half of young europeans. it is important to provide them with the legal and cultural tools they need to make full use of the learning potential and opportunities offered by the common labour market. the forthcoming revision of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications will certainly be an important instrument to this end in order to give impetus and stimulate professional mobility within the territory of the union. i believe, however, that in addition to simplifying and reducing the time required for the current procedures, it is essential to continue to guarantee our citizens the reliability and safety of the services provided by professionals. in the medical field, for example, possible misunderstandings between patients and doctors could jeopardize both diagnosis and treatment. pending the adoption of the european commission's new legislative proposal, i have decided to abstain at this stage of the debate. i think it is appropriate to deepen the dialogue with all the categories concerned in the meantime, in order to arrive at a new regulation of professional qualifications which is more effective, more transparent and more widely shared.
in writing. − we believe that the free movement of an increasing number of highly qualified people and workers is one of the fundamental benefits of european cooperation and a competitive internal market, as well as being an important factor in the development of the eu economies. we are therefore firmly convinced that the mobility of european citizens must be strengthened and that indirect obstacles must be removed, by striking a balance between mobility and the quality of vocational qualifications. the number of regulated professions needs to be revised and gradually reduced, while the scope of automatic recognition of qualifications for new professions will need to be extended where appropriate, with particular attention to innovative sectors. to this end, it is essential to harmonise the different education systems in the 27 member states. we therefore call on all of them to coordinate their formal and informal education systems better in order to create a future workforce with similar qualifications that can benefit a european labour market. only then will we be able to raise our productivity levels. we also call for greater transparency in the administrative processes involved and for a reduction in costs, in order to facilitate and accelerate the recognition of professional qualifications without hindering the free movement of persons.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i agree that a proper application of this directive would strengthen the human dimension of the single market. the free movement of a growing number of highly qualified people and workers is one of the great advantages of cooperation between member states.
in writing. - i shall dwell on the first two points of the report: simplification for citizens and improvement of existing rules. they define the approach of the rapporteur to the work of revising the occupational health and safety directive 2005/36/ec. simplifications are not always a good thing. when the action that causes them is a general removal of pre-existing regulatory presides, the counter-impacts can be more damaging than the causes that are being eliminated. the free movement of services and people is, i would say, the most important part of the package of freedoms to promote the common market. it seemed natural to propose that the considerable differences still existing between the 27 country systems should be taken into account. unfortunately, all the amendments to that effect have been rejected. the intention was to provide for the acceleration of the homogenisation of training systems and the equalisation of qualifications and the review of orders and provisions on the determination of professional rates, in a guaranteed and non-anti-competitive view. that was the reason for the decision not to support the proposal by mrs mcclarkin.
in writing. - there are certainly a number of positive aspects to this report, which lead to greater simplification and greater guarantees for the recognition of professional qualifications. however, there is one point in the report which leaves me somewhat puzzled. i refer to article 13, which would exempt tourist guides from the obligation to make a prior declaration in the event of the provider's moving. this measure may open the door to the invasion of unauthorized tour guides, who do not have the necessary skills to operate in a territory that is not familiar to them. local tour guides are a guarantee of competence, quality and safety. during the recent floods in liguria, it was precisely the expertise and knowledge of the area that enabled two local guides to save several people. i do not want europe to give way once again to the big multinational tourist companies, as happened with bolkestein, by selling off yet another of our excellent territories. i therefore voted for the abstention.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons and workers is a factor of major importance in the economic context of the european union as a driving force for cooperation between the member states and as a stimulus to the competitiveness of the internal market, factors which accelerate the development of the economies of the european union. i therefore believe that it is extremely necessary to strengthen the mobility of european citizens by removing all kinds of obstacles to mobility. in voting in favour of the report, i am confident that all initiatives to facilitate crossborder mobility will be encouraged as a means of ensuring the effective functioning of labour markets and as a means of stimulating economic growth and competitiveness within the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to make it easier for doctors, engineers, dentists and other professionals to work abroad in the eu, increasing the flexibility of the labour market. this can only be achieved by mutual recognition of professional qualifications which is rapid and at the same time does not compromise the reliability and security of their performance. speeding up the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications would also help young europeans who consider experience abroad to be important for their careers. all european professionals are waiting for an increase in mobility that will not have to be on paper. to simplify the still too bureaucratic procedures, it is necessary to introduce an optional professional passport to be inserted immediately into the already existing internal market information system, which can link public authorities throughout the eu.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for mrs mcclarkin's report on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the right to practise is respected in all member states, and that the report is also concerned with the health sector, professional qualifications from third countries and the need for a high level of language proficiency, especially for certain categories of professionals whose work involves close contact with patients or clients.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report to prepare the future debate on the reform proposal which the commission is expected to present in december and which aims to make it easier for doctors, engineers, dentists and other professionals to work abroad. while it is necessary that professional qualifications be recognised rapidly by the other member states, the reliability and security of their provision must not be compromised. in this respect, it is noted that the category of tour guides could lose recognition of their professional qualification as, following the revision of directive 2005/36/ec, this profession would be confused with that of tourist guides of passage, who could carry out guided tours in all 27 member states.
in writing. − currently, the complexity of the recognition process, coupled with an extremely high number of regulated professions, especially in my country, italy, is hindering the entry of european professionals and limiting competition within regulated professions, with negative effects on the competitiveness of firms. that said, i fully agree with the report's call for the administrative procedures for the recognition of professions to be simplified by making full use of new information technology. the creation of registration systems and an online portal containing all information on procedures could, on the one hand, speed up the processes of recognition of professional qualifications and, on the other hand, allow for a more effective flow of information between member states' administrations, reducing barriers to access for foreign professionals. the proposal to extend the internal market information system (imi) to professions not yet covered by the so-called 'services directive' is also acceptable, as imi has proved to be a very efficient and inexpensive tool. finally, the cautious approach to extending the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in third countries is acceptable, as this may not guarantee an adequate level of professionalism.
in writing. - mr president, the guarantee of food safety and health is one of the priorities of the consumer protection strategy. it is essential to promote consumer education and information on consumer rights and services. this not only makes it possible to make the most of the benefits and opportunities of the internal market, contributing to its proper functioning and filling legislative gaps, but also to defend the interests for the benefit of all. the next step in the new strategy will be to strengthen the protection of cross-border transactions, in particular for online services and access to basic banking services. finally, this strategy should contribute to the development of a low-carbon, and therefore sustainable, economy, which protects children in particular from advertising, since they are not yet aware and able to make informed choices as adults.
in writing. − the report is balanced and adequately recognises the role of consumers in the development of the european economy, their fundamental importance for the proper functioning of the internal market and the need for the internal market for the european union to include measures to promote and protect consumers in its policies. the text gives due weight to vital areas of european consumption, such as food safety, health and safety and the quality of products offered on the market. the rapporteur has nevertheless managed to balance the focus on crucial market sectors with social needs that we must never forget, such as social and environmental sustainability and protection in the digital environment. we must be aware that respect for consumers is fundamental to growth and the achievement of the development objectives of the european union, and that today more than ever, in a time of financial and economic crisis, consumer protection also has an important social dimension. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i welcome this report which represents a major step forward for consumer policy, the result of elaborate but effective cooperation by a number of political groups. i would like to focus on the central role of consumers not only as an economic category but also as individuals who must be protected. i believe that it is absolutely necessary for the success of our policies to implement concrete actions aimed at increasing consumer confidence in community legislation. the development of a sense of belonging to the single market should stimulate cross-border trade, but this requires clear and precise rules from the bodies responsible for ensuring its management and organisation both in terms of consumer confidence and future economic prospects. the prerequisites for a successful consumer agenda in 2012 are there, now it only remains to wait for the formal approval and initiatives of the council.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the honourable member shows that the consumer protection strategy should provide a framework within which to include all consumer issues. i therefore believe that the adoption of the strategy will bring wider protection in the area of food safety and health. so my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the new consumer protection strategy should provide a framework within which to incorporate all the important future issues and challenges in the consumer sector. the guarantee of food safety, health and product safety should, of course, be the top priority. consumer conditions vary enormously from state to state. the financing of care services in a spirit of solidarity and accessibility for all is an essential element in reducing existing inequalities. the consumer protection strategy will therefore have to promote the eu 2020 sustainable growth objective and thus increase sustainable public consumption for services such as education, healthcare and care for the elderly. finally, we would like to stress the importance of a sound representation of consumer interests as one of the fundamental elements of a healthy civil society. such representation must be made possible and promoted not only at the level of the european union but also at the national level in all member states. this is not the case in all countries, years after joining the eu. where this is not the case, measures are therefore essential to give impetus to the consumer movement.
in writing. - a serious reflection is needed to tackle the many challenges we face in this field. the rapporteur rightly calls for the empowerment of consumers and the reduction of inequalities and the promotion of sustainable consumption. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given the current economic situation of the european economy as a whole, it is not only necessary but also indispensable to define a framework within which to include all the important issues and future challenges in the consumer sector aimed at consumer protection. the strategy, which will be presented in the form of a commission communication and will include all consumer initiatives from 2012 onwards, should pursue the dual objective of ensuring consumer protection on the one hand (through food, health and product safety guarantees) and reducing inequalities between european consumers on the other. i am firmly convinced that the consumer policy strategy can make it possible to integrate consumer interests into all other relevant policies of the european union, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this text is the right and proper stimulus to guide the european commission's policies on consumer protection. this is a complex and important subject which therefore needs further and future study. the report highlighted important principles such as the importance of the role of the consumer in the development of union policies and the growing dissatisfaction of citizens with sectors such as finance and insurance. the report by mr triantaphyllides also makes important references to the need to strengthen consumer protection in sectors which are currently experiencing strong growth such as e-commerce. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. − the european commission will publish a consumer protection strategy by may 2012 as a follow-up to the european consumer strategy 2007-2013. ensuring food safety, health and product safety should be the top priority of the consumer protection strategy. according to the material deprivation index, 16.3% of the population of the european union is at risk of poverty, and this rises to 17.1% for women. the financing of care services in a spirit of solidarity and accessibility for all is therefore essential to reduce inequalities between consumers and citizens. another challenge which is an important test bed for future consumer policy is the promotion of the interests of the 'digital consumer' with the accompanying protection of personal data. the commission will therefore be required to provide the consumer with a secure digital environment, access to telecommunications networks as a tool for social and economic inclusion and respect for the fundamental rights of consumers, especially the protection of privacy.
in writing. − to empower and better inform european consumers. that is the purpose of the text adopted today in the house, on which i voted in favour. the european union must build on past experience and, while seeking to respect the principles of competition and free markets as much as possible, focus on a strategy that educates consumers, strengthens protection for cross-border transactions and also facilitates access to basic banking services.
in writing. - mr president, i fully support the report by mr creutzmann on online gambling. as the rapporteur has pointed out, about 10% of all gambling in europe is done on the internet, mobile phones and interactive tv platforms. in modern society, children have increasing access to new technologies, exposing them to hidden pitfalls, such as cyberbullying, grooming and online child pornography, the dangers of which they are unaware. it is good to combat illegal gambling to prevent fraud, to combat the black market and gambling addiction, and to put in place effective instruments and safeguards to protect children and vulnerable adults. eu countries must be free to maintain their own rules on online gambling but, given the cross-border nature of the union, it would be appropriate to start coordinating measures at european level to prevent illegal gambling, especially to protect children, through a coordinated approach of national legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr creutzmann's report because i think that it, on the whole, highlights and captures well the crucial points of the complex issue of gambling in europe, calling for targeted interventions. while it does not propose any decisive and particularly innovative solutions, it stresses the need for some coordination and common approach at community level in dealing with the problem, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity for the benefit of the member states, in order to prevent unauthorized operators from exploiting the loopholes offered by the various national systems.
in writing. − online gambling is growing steadily, accounting for 10% of the gambling market, with an annual turnover of around eur 10 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the contrary, it is necessary to combat and regulate the shadow areas of the industry through a legal offer of games. that is why i voted in favour. the difficulty of regulation and the fragmentation of the sector, also in the light of the use of the internet, a tool which knows no borders, require close cooperation between the licensing authorities of the member states, following the italian or french example where a licensing authority grants licences, even unlimited ones, and at the same time carries out extensive checks to prevent the commission of crimes such as money laundering or other gambling-related crimes. it is, however, necessary to provide for uniform minimum regulation to be applied within the union, binding on all authorised operators offering online gambling services, but leaving the possibility for member states to define additional criteria, so as to protect minors and, in addition, to prevent the increasing dependency on gambling.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creutzmann report on online gambling in the internal market because i believe that the time has come to regulate consumer protection and the fight against crime more strictly and uniformly. the illegal component of gambling will be limited and at the same time it will be characterized by a controlled environment in which there is a prevention of addiction and a ban on young people. this will be possible by providing for additional revenue to be secured by the member states. an important component of the relationship is the sports aspect, which is too often implicated in gambling in general. there has been a long debate between the political parties on the right of mutual recognition, the right to bet and the concept of criminal prosecution for sports fraud. the report also takes account of the principle of subsidiarity, but maintains the principles of transparency and competition as a cornerstone and, above all, calls for effective cooperation between the various regulatory bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the introduction of some minimum common principles to define this area better. it is not just a matter of business, though it is important. we're talking about an addictive activity, and in that sense, online can be significantly different from offline. i congratulate the rapporteur on two things: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i am actually a little puzzled about the introduction of the concept of the right to bet. i am not sure that all the implications have been sufficiently considered, and i would also point out that this choice is different from that made by the italian government. i remain, however, confident about the freedom that the principle of subsidiarity will leave to the choices of each member state. i am waiting for the new commission proposal, and i sincerely hope that the innovations concerning the possibility of self-exclusion will also be taken into account.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the online gambling and betting sector is growing and not taking account of the evolution of this commercial phenomenon would be, at european level, a way of underestimating not only the benefits that this economic sector brings to the member states but also the risks associated with it. i voted in favour of mr creutzmann's report because it has the merit of combining and paying attention to the risks and opportunities that the online gambling sector brings with it. in fact, in some countries, the percentage of compulsive gamblers, and thus pathological cases, is as high as 2 percent. considering such issues and calling for coordination between member states to combat gambling-related crime, including illegal betting, is the most appropriate legislative path to take in order to exploit, at the same time, the economic potential of online gambling and its positive connections with the fields of charity and sport.
in writing. − the steady growth of online gambling is increasingly highlighting the fragmentation of the european market. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to ensure that national regulatory bodies work closely together. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - this report is intended to outline some important aspects for an area in which, up to now, there have been very different and fragmented regulations. it is right that the member states should retain their exclusive powers, but within a certain degree of european cooperation and coordination. this can be very useful in combating illegal online gambling, which very often comes from countries outside the eu, namely from asia. online games can be an important source of revenue for states and therefore fraud and scams that can steal large resources need to be combated. the report also makes a compelling call, repeatedly expressed, for vigilance to be taken to protect minors and the most vulnerable from the risks they may encounter in online gambling. a major role can also be played by greater collaboration in the sector to try to detect and prevent sports fraud, a phenomenon that has found its last frontier on the internet. the report highlights these and other significant points and that is why i wanted to vote in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, despite the various judgments of the court of justice of the european union that gambling is not a normal service, it can be seen that online gambling continues to grow in the european area with a corresponding increase in market share and turnover. the regulatory environment in the different member states is not homogeneous and therefore there are distortions that, by exploiting the characteristic of the internet of offering cross-border services without geographical barriers, allow players residing in countries where online gambling is prohibited to reach online gambling providers from member states where the market is open. given the negative effects of gambling on the human being, such as addiction, and agreeing with the solutions proposed in the report, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i congratulate mr creutzmann on his excellent work. member states need to work together on the problem of online gambling. strong cooperation between member states, the introduction of common minimum standards or a framework directive are needed. given the cross-border nature of such activity, it is necessary to coordinate a european-level approach to measures to prevent illegal gambling and to protect children and vulnerable adults. in order to combat the black market in online gambling, we call on member states to introduce a licensing model to ensure the safety of players and the respect of the service providers of the criteria imposed in the country where they operate. the european commission should also consider blocking financial transactions between banks and credit card companies and players on the blacklist. to protect young people and other vulnerable groups, checks such as age verification and restrictions on electronic payments are necessary before a game is started. i believe that a code of conduct for online gambling would be a first step towards stricter regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is in the direction of combating the black market and in the interests of protecting children. there is an urgent need to promote closer cooperation at european level to combat illegal gambling and to protect vulnerable consumers. each country must be free to maintain its own rules on online gambling, but with a european-wide approach to measures to prevent illegal gambling and to protect children and vulnerable adults. in order to combat the black market in online gambling, it is also necessary for member states to introduce a licensing model that ensures safety for players and respect for service providers.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to express my support for mr creutzmann's report. online gambling is a growing market and its turnover has now exceeded eur 10 billion. for these reasons, the question of consumer protection, especially for the weakest and most at risk groups, is extremely sensitive and important. at the same time, we must ensure that the revenues that member states receive from taxing online gambling are not limited by the worrying presence of illegal gambling opportunities which, in addition to being an opportunity for laundering huge sums of money of illicit origin, put the less aware consumers at serious risk. i think it is essential to ensure that the national regulatory bodies work closely together. greater exchange of information at european level could prevent unauthorised operators from exploiting loopholes in the rules and pitting national regulatory bodies against each other. the commission and the member states should therefore act without delay to protect european consumers from unscrupulous traders.
in writing. − i fully share the concern expressed in the green paper opinion about the size of the illegal online gambling market and the prerogative of member states to identify and impose sanctions on gambling operators who provide gambling services without holding licences and authorisations in the state where the player resides. the creutzmann report also stresses the need to complement national legislation with a common framework ('coordinated approach') at european level to address issues relating to cross-border aspects and asks the commission to examine whether common standards or rules at european union level are appropriate to address common challenges such as consumer protection, the fight against illegal gambling and criminal activities, and the protection of the integrity of gambling and sport. i fully agree with the report that it is urgent to take the necessary measures to protect the integrity of sport and to implement better coordination between states and between the organisations involved to that end. in particular, the proposal to adopt a common definition of sports fraud and to recognise it as a criminal offence throughout europe is of interest (in italy there has already been a law since 1989 defining the offence of sports fraud).
in writing. − this report on bee health and honey production in europe is of particular importance not only for bee-keeping businesses in the union but also for all honey consumers who need to be assured of food safety and traceability of the product. the text of the proposal for a directive proposes targeted measures in the field of research and dissemination of scientific knowledge aimed at maintaining the biodiversity of bees through the effective and safe use of veterinary products. the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture and is a source of primary or additional income for over 600,000 citizens of the european union. i welcome the creation of a union reference laboratory, but i also believe that there is a need to support diagnostic laboratories and field trials at national level. i would draw the commission's attention to the need both to provide funding for laboratories which analyse the quality and safety of apiculture products and to share this information at european level. while welcoming the commission's pilot programme on bee health surveillance, i stress the need for further efforts to establish a proper surveillance system within the union.
in writing. − the beekeeping sector is crucial for the survival of many plant species, for the quality and variety of food production and for the maintenance of a good biological balance. despite modern technology and advances in science and agriculture, the improvement of biodiversity has always been linked to bees and their pollination activity. in recent years the sector has experienced an increasing rate of bee mortality, the causes of which are not yet fully understood and which raises concerns about the impact on agri-food production and the good conservation of plant species. the report rightly calls for greater commitment by the community institutions, and in particular by the commission, in this area. i welcome in this respect the possibility that the commission will propose in 2012 a comprehensive legislative proposal on animal health, in which the world of beekeeping and bee health research will be given due attention. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on bee health and the challenges for beekeeping. the sector, which is an integral part of the european agricultural sector, provides vital services for the maintenance of biodiversity. it is estimated that 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination, whose economic value, which far exceeds the economic value of honey produced, is estimated in europe at around eur 15 billion per year. the recent widespread death of bees has led to considerable losses in the sector and a crisis which has affected the whole agricultural system. the reasons are still unclear, but it is certain that the harmful effects on bee health have been caused by the presence of toxic agents in the environment, due to the improper or excessive use of pesticides, and by factors related to the use of gm crops. it is therefore necessary to intensify studies to provide reliable data and to create platforms for the exchange of scientific data at european level, including through a continuous dialogue between beekeepers and the competent authorities. in addition, ad hoc funding should be supported for both diagnostic laboratories and for research into specific veterinary products.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural heritage is at the root of european history and culture. beekeeping is an integral part of national traditions and an important source of income for almost 600 000 citizens of the european union. beekeeping provides a very important service to the ecosystem through pollination, which preserves the biodiversity and genetic diversity of plants while maintaining the ecological balance. for all these reasons, i welcome the proposals for research measures in the text which aim to maintain the biodiversity of bees by means of the effective and safe use of veterinary products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − if we do not act effectively to stem the recent bee mortality, this phenomenon could have an irreversible impact on our food production and on europe's environmental stability. the well-being of bees is a benefit to the entire ecosystem. i will give you two simple facts: in europe, about 84% of plant species and about 76% of food production depend on pollination. that is what we wanted to safeguard with today's vote. it is important that new, more flexible rules are defined to facilitate the spread of appropriate veterinary products and the search for ever more effective vaccines. i also believe that all member states should set up systems to monitor imports of animals from third countries in order to prevent the introduction of exotic diseases or pests into the territory of the union. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that beekeeping is a source of income for some 600 000 european citizens. i therefore hope that europe will do more to support this strategic sector not only from an economic but also from an environmental point of view.
in writing. − the considerable reduction in the number of bee colonies should not be overlooked as pollinating species contribute to the productivity of the agricultural sector. the report therefore rightly calls on the commission to increase the level of support for research into bee health in the next financial framework. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - perhaps not everyone is aware of the enormous importance of beekeeping at european level. it is estimated that over 600,000 people are directly employed in this sector, which in turn affects the whole of european agricultural production, as 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on pollination by bees. unfortunately, in recent years there has been a worrying decline in bees, the causes of which have not yet been well identified. this report proposes some useful measures, such as the allocation of funds for a common european effort to try to solve this very serious problem. strengthened and coordinated surveillance of bee health and status can also be a valuable tool for risk assessment and prevention. i have therefore decided to support this report, convinced that it can go in the right direction to help this sector which is in difficulty today.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given that the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture, providing the primary or additional income for over 600,000 citizens of the european union, providing vital services for agriculture through pollination and contributing to the maintenance of biodiversity, the recent increase in bee mortality is a fact that deserves attention. although the precise reasons for mortality remain unclear, it should be considered that one of the main obstacles to effective interventions to combat excessive bee mortality is the absence of reliable and comparable data on the number of hives, beekeepers and bee colony losses in the european union. given the need to implement an effective and harmonised monitoring system in europe to assess the extent of bee mortality and to develop a more precise knowledge of the extent and causes of losses, i am voting in favour, also considering the possibility of developing new medicines.
in writing. - the report by mr tabajdi was voted on today in plenary. the beekeeping sector provides important ecosystem services through pollination. one of the main obstacles to effective action against excessive bee mortality is the lack of reliable and comparable data on the number of hives, beekeepers and colony losses in the eu. it is important that the commission presents a comprehensive 'animal health' directive in early 2012 which aims to replace the current basic veterinary legislation, including bee health, within the framework of european veterinary policy. in addition, the rules for authorising and making available veterinary products for honeybees should be made more flexible and pharmaceutical companies should be given incentives to develop new products to combat the varroa mite, a parasite and the main pathogen responsible for around 10% of annual losses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because the increase in bee mortality could have a very serious impact on food production in europe and on environmental stability, since most plants are pollinated by these insects. the european union needs to increase investment in the research of new medicines, coordinating its efforts to protect what is rapidly becoming an endangered species. european countries must pool their prevention research, sharing their findings among laboratories, beekeepers, farmers and industry, in such a way as to avoid overlaps and unnecessary waste. toxic agents such as pesticides in the environment are causing a real slaughter of these insects. this is why action is also needed to support special training programmes for farmers to make them aware of the effects of these products and the possibility of using alternative techniques with a low environmental impact.
in writing. − the number of pollinating insects has declined dramatically in europe in recent years. the european food safety authority concludes in its scientific report on bee mortality in europe and monitoring by highlighting the general weakness of most surveillance systems and a lack of nationally representative and comparable european colony loss data. this is also due to a general lack of standardization and harmonization, both in monitoring systems and in the case-study and information gathering which i believe is essential if we are to combat this serious and widespread bee mortality. i would like to stress that the origin of bee loss in europe is multifactorial and that little is known about both the causes and the risk factors. it certainly depends on the way beekeeping is carried out, which can cause stress in the colonies, biological agents such as viruses, environmental factors such as the loss of biodiversity, both qualitative and quantitative, climate change, gmos and electromagnetic radiation, as well as other factors such as the loss of queens and immunodepression. we cannot therefore concentrate our attention solely on pesticides, as is often the case.
in writing. − the beekeeping sector is of inestimable value to european agriculture: in addition to being a source of direct or indirect income for some 600,000 european citizens, it provides a very important service to agriculture through pollination and contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity. unfortunately, however, the reasons for this have been unclear, as the number of beehives, beekeepers and bee colonies in the european union has been increasing steadily in recent years and there is no reliable data on the number of beehives, beekeepers and bee colonies. of course, one of the factors that is being blamed is the presence of toxic agents in the environment, such as the improper or excessive use of pesticides and herbicides. i therefore feel it necessary, and i vote in favour, to urge the european institutions to seek to protect the european beekeeping sector more effectively, also ensuring greater benefits in terms of the labelling of apiculture products.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the important work he has done, for which i voted in favour. services of general economic interest are services which are indispensable for society and which, without state intervention, would not be sufficiently provided or would not be provided at all. state intervention therefore aims to provide quality services accessible to all, while also promoting social, territorial and economic cohesion in the union. these services, which vary widely, are determined by central, regional and local authorities. the compensation paid by the state must be subject to the european union treaties and in particular to the rules on competition. it is therefore necessary to reform the state aid rules for services of general economic interest as the administrative burden of applying the rules is often too high for small local authorities and higher specific thresholds for the amount of compensation for social services of general interest should be considered. public services must therefore be accessible to all without discrimination. a horizontal reform of the system will certainly involve the development of sector-specific regulations for certain types of services.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the simon report on the reform of eu state aid rules for services of general economic interest (sgeis) because it is a response to the commission's communication on the forthcoming review of the state aid package for sgeis. in a context of globalisation, i believe it is of fundamental importance to ensure a framework of greater legal certainty on a number of issues such as the distinction between non-economic and economic activities or the concept of an exemption threshold from the obligation to notify the status of compensatory payments for the sgeis themselves. finally, i think it is certainly important to achieve full recognition of the special role of national, regional and local authorities in the management of the sgeis.
in writing. − i am in favour of reform of the eu state aid rules on services of general economic interest (sgei). the latter are of particular importance among the common values of the union, as they promote fundamental rights and social, economic and territorial cohesion, and are therefore essential for combating inequalities in society and for sustainable development. i consider that access to compensation by businesses is essential and constitutes an important economic and financial condition for the proper performance of the tasks assigned to them by the public authorities, especially in this period of crisis in which public services act as automatic stabilisers. the sgeis will thus be of high quality and accessible to all sections of the population, taking into account social heterogeneity and universal access. it is also important to make the control of compensation more flexible and transparent. finally, i would stress that state aid should help to stimulate local entrepreneurship and the local economy, create jobs and promote competition in the telecommunications market and in other areas. the services offered thus contribute significantly to economic performance and competitiveness, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 growth strategy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the social dimension of our communities, especially the small and mediumsized ones, is more important than their economic dimension. in this context, it should be stressed that some essential services, in particular those relating to human health, the environment (including the water and waste cycle) and local public transport, are to be considered directly attributable to the exercise of fundamental rights of persons. as such, they can be politically classified as public goods and services, even though they are managed by private entities. another is to make them more efficient, effective and economical, pursuing higher and better quality standards. another is the risk of excluding access to many sections of the population, especially the weakest and most needy, if we apply the rules of the market to these sectors in a simplified and secure manner. this is why, because of their specificity and social relevance, a clear distinction should be maintained in the forthcoming reform being defined between the rules governing state aid to services of general economic interest and the rules governing other state aid. the report adopted supports this view in part.
in writing. − services of general economic interest play a fundamental role not only for the individual citizen but also for the well-being of european society as a whole. i agree with the rapporteur that services of general economic interest must be of high quality and accessible to all. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, having regard to the important social character of services of general economic interest, which are those services which the state or the state authority considers to be of particular importance to all citizens and which are therefore provided in the interest of the community, and having regard also to the nature of promoting the achievement of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 growth strategy, and also considering that the reform of the eu rules envisaged in the report is necessary, i am voting in favour of these reforms being able to make a significant contribution to economic performance and competitiveness and to promote social, economic and territorial cohesion in the eu.
in writing. the econ report, in line with the results of the public consultations, highlights the need to make the rules simpler and more straightforward. the text stressed that some key concepts in the commission's reform text needed clarification, for example on the distinction between economic and non-economic activities, in order to create greater legal certainty. the opinion also calls on the commission to raise the limits governing the application of the decision on exemptions from notification of certain compensatory measures on the basis of the consultations. in short, a call for greater transparency and flexibility. i think it is important to point out that the reform proposals for the altmark package put forward by the commission do not seem to amount to any real simplification of the rules. the overabundance of texts, including communications, decisions and regulations, is likely to make the regulatory framework all the more confusing rather than contribute to a genuine and functional, as well as usable, update of the criteria for the assessment of compensation and of the sgei ads. in fact, although the different acts are of a different nature, they all restate the same principles and elements of analysis, so that the basic objective of the reform is less clear and less immediately identifiable.
in writing. - mr president, in europe alone more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty and 25%, or 20 million, are children. in the current crisis, the situation of these people, and in particular of the most vulnerable groups such as children, the disabled and the elderly, can only get worse. the union must therefore take concrete and immediate action to achieve the target of lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. coordination between the member states and the european and national institutions is necessary to respond effectively to the needs of the population. it is particularly important to take action to prevent the factors which contribute to the increase in poverty. the union should invest more in inclusive education systems to tackle early school leaving, particularly for children with disabilities, of whom less than half have access to higher education, and provide accessible and quality services, especially for older people and working women and mothers.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it clearly reaffirms the commitment made by the eu at the start of the lisbon strategy to have ‘a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty’. i would like to underline that it is impossible to reduce poverty or to boost inclusive growth if nothing is done to combat inequality and discrimination, or if there is no solidarity with the weakest groups in society. we should also consider that the most vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and people with disabilities, have been those most severely affected by the financial, economic and social crisis. for this reason, the austerity measures must not undermine employment and social protection, worsen the situation for the most disadvantaged or put at risk of unemployment or poverty millions of people who were previously still managing to live on their wages or retirement pensions. with this text, we call on the commission to play a coordinating role and to guide the member states to meet the current challenges, and combat poverty and social exclusion. indeed, the objectives of decreasing the number of poor people by 20 million in the eu by 2020 must remain a top priority.
in writing. − despite being one of the richest regions in the world, the european union has over 80 million people at risk of poverty, including 20 million children, or 8% of the working population. this situation is incompatible with the european values of justice and solidarity enshrined in the treaties. the european platform against poverty and social exclusion is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to propose to the member states a work plan to achieve the main objective of reducing by 2020 the number of people in precarious situations by 20 million. in recent years, poverty and social exclusion have increased despite the union's efforts, while the consequences of the recent economic and financial crisis have further aggravated the problem, putting pressure on the most vulnerable sections of the population. in my view, since poverty is a multifactor phenomenon, it requires an integrated response that actively involves various levels of public authorities, both at european and local level. although the fight against poverty and social exclusion is essentially a matter for national governments, the union can and must play an important role in raising awareness of the problem, coordinating and financing action to combat poverty.
in writing. - the european platform against social exclusion contains proposals which i do not share, as they envisage a commitment by the european union and the member states to support categories which do not represent the social emergency at this time of crisis. we are talking, as so often happens, about policies in favour of the roma and their social inclusion, when we are talking about an ethnic group which simply shows no desire to integrate into the social fabric of our societies. we are talking about guaranteeing quality accommodation for certain categories of migrants, forgetting that the national and community authorities should first of all take care of the many disadvantaged groups in our countries, the disadvantaged groups who are suffering the disastrous effects of the current economic crisis, such as the elderly, young couples, and so on. these are the people who really should be helped by making every possible financial effort, before throwing away hundreds of millions of euros as has been done in recent years to pursue ghostly goals, such as the inclusion of the roma. my vote is against the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the daerden report, which stresses a very worrying aspect of the current economic crisis. in recent years, there has been an increase in the number of eu citizens in economic difficulties: there are over 80 million people at risk of poverty, of whom 20 million are children. despite the concrete european commitment, poverty and social exclusion are increasing considerably, obviously affecting the weakest sections of society. that is why i voted in favour of this report. while recognizing that the fight against poverty is essentially a matter for the states, there is no doubt that the union must play an active and more decisive role in raising awareness, coordinating and financing, since poverty reduction is a driver for growth. in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce the number of economically vulnerable eu citizens by 20 million, integrated responses involving all institutions, from europe to individual countries and territories, are needed, promoting innovation, optimising european funds and improving the efficiency of social protection. to ensure sustainable growth, the most vulnerable must be placed at the heart of the european project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe in the need to tackle such a social scourge in a coherent way. eradicating poverty and preventing the social exclusion it causes is part of the tasks of each member state, which must protect the human rights of its citizens. parliament and the commission should therefore strengthen the political commitment made in the lisbon strategy, thus making a decisive impact in terms of poverty reduction. poverty is a problem which affects many aspects of an individual's social, economic and political life and i believe that an integrated approach can be an appropriate response to ensure that the needs of individuals are respected. in order to ensure non-discriminatory access to rights, services and resources, it is necessary to adopt certain measures to monitor member states in relation to the achievement of the targets set, to encourage the adoption of the open method of coordination, to create jobs and to provide for a minimum wage.
in writing. − the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, which is part of the wider objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, must be characterised by taking into account the peculiarity of a phenomenon which is itself complex, articulated and multifaceted and which, with the onset of the economic crisis, has assumed even more dramatic and worrying dimensions. the gradual expansion of the sectors affected or threatened by the consequences of the financial crisis into poverty or 'severe deprivation' requires a strengthening and differentiation of assistance. on the other hand, it is concerned about the distortive effects which, in this area too, may result from the unfortunate decision not to exclude investment by investment from the stability pact. the platform albeit in a context of scarcity of financial resources is a positive sign, in line with the need to develop, within the european framework, specific socioeconomic interventions capable, outside the mere logic of emergency or temporary support, of marking a structural reversal of the trend of the phenomenon. in particular, the importance of the desirable possibility of launching a global initiative for the introduction of a guaranteed minimum wage, an instrument which, if appropriate and conducive to economic development, will reduce and prevent poverty and social exclusion, is underlined.
in writing. − to achieve the ambitious target of reducing poverty and social exclusion for 20 million people by 2020, the european union must do more to raise awareness, coordinate and finance. i believe that european funds must be used more effectively and more effectively to combat the increase in discrimination and social exclusion which are often the direct cause and consequence of poverty. the fight against poverty cannot be separated from the fight against unemployment. however, i would like to stress that having a job is often not enough to ensure that people get out of poverty and that further action is therefore needed to combat the phenomenon of the working poor and to ensure access to quality and lasting employment. unfortunately, the european union today has over 80 million people at risk of poverty, which corresponds to 8% of the working population. we must confront this dramatically worsening situation by remembering that poverty is a shared responsibility and a challenge for society as a whole and should not be stigmatised or seen as a failure of individuals who are in economic difficulty or social exclusion.
in writing. - my vote on mr daerden's report is in favour. i agree in particular with the objection to the commission's decision to reduce the allocation for the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the european union in 2012 from eur 500 million to eur 113.5 million.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, although the european union is one of the richest regions in the world, poverty and social exclusion are phenomena that affect a large proportion of the population. this situation is incompatible with the european values of justice and solidarity, and it is in this context that the union has been engaged for years in policies and actions aimed at reducing it. however, despite the union's actions, poverty and social exclusion have increased in recent years, supported by the contribution of the 2008 crisis which further aggravated the problem. in the light of the above, i am voting in favour of ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth, and i consider it important that the platform aims to promote innovation and social experimentation, the reduction of all forms of poverty throughout the life span, the optimisation of european funds, the efficiency of social security.
in writing. - too often when we think of people living in poverty we think only of the lack of economic resources. there are other deprivations which aggravate the precarious situation and prevent it from being overcome: the right to housing, to work, to family, to food, to health, to education, to justice. a person is poor also because he cannot contribute to society as much as others. poverty and social exclusion contribute to the poverty of the whole society. europe's strength lies in the potential of its individuals. with the adoption of this report, parliament is today adopting a genuine action plan, the main elements of which are the fight against child poverty and the creation of new jobs. combating exclusion requires national, regional and local policies that strike a balance between economic growth and social objectives and are complemented by strategies for the most vulnerable. only together can we win our battle.
in writing. the initiative report follows the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. more than 80 million people now consider themselves poor, and this has increased as a result of the economic crisis. the text could be partially acceptable, namely where it refers to women, who are more exposed to risk because of wage differences, and where it recognises the need to increase cohesion policy in support of the weaker groups such as the elderly and the disabled. unfortunately, this report also tends to favour migrants and minorities. specifically, the roma are considered as a group subject to discrimination and segregation and ad hoc measures are required for their integration. i therefore vote against, because the risk is to protect and protect others at the expense of european citizens who are experiencing economic hardship. the problem of housing is becoming more and more acute and action is therefore needed to ensure that poor european citizens have access to housing on a more relaxed basis.
in writing. - the daerden report focuses on a number of issues considered essential to combating poverty effectively, from raising awareness and deepening cooperation between member states on poverty-fighting strategies to the situation of the most disadvantaged people (children, disabled people, the homeless) and a series of calls for the commission to act effectively to help implement more effective policies to combat poverty (development of evaluation mechanisms, conception of a new basket of essential goods and services, efforts to resolve the issue of the food aid programme for the indigent). i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. a statistic about my country. italy has listed its objectives and programmes in the fight against poverty in its national reform programme: 3.9 billion of investments are for social inclusion. of this, 2.4 billion is for the integration of women and disadvantaged groups such as migrants and ethnic minorities into the labour market. the remaining 1.5 billion is intended for improving the provision of collective social and health services. the fight against poverty, which involves all the member states acting together to combat it, is part of one of the millennium development goals agreed at the united nations.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the usual programme of cutting financial revenues, of fighting speculation, but i have heard little in practice. we should instead speak clearly about separating the collection banks from the speculative banks like goldman sachs, which instead seems to have become the calling card with which you present the saviours of greece and the saviours of italy. i do not believe in this european union which imposes a dictate on us by imposing these characters, all authoritative members of these valuable consortia, such as the trilateral commission, the bilderberg club, where the protagonists, the leaders of the european union, also meet, without admitting any outsiders, because they are places where secret decisions are taken which then impact on the heads of the peoples. you always talk about cuts, cuts in the real economy and cuts in wages and pensions, but never cuts in bank profits, never cuts in the finance bosses. what a happy ending for our country for the celebrations of 150 years of national unity, with the total sale of italian sovereignty to the powerful masters of the world! i'm very happy for you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this and the next years are crucial for the future and for the unity of europe. the work programme must therefore be more fully integrated into this logic of the extraordinary, which means concentrating activity on the essential objectives, giving more concrete effectiveness to our action, concentrating investment on those forms which can in turn mobilise other private resources but also, as the honourable member said, seeing the commission - mr president barroso, if i may have your attention for a moment - playing a more active role, more direct towards the realities of certain countries and of the whole eurozone and of the whole of europe. we hope that the commission will play this role, and i say this also as the representative of a country which is in the process of changing its government these days, which is not a technocratic government but a technical government which shows not the renunciation of political forces and politics but rather generosity - and i say this as the force which in my country was in opposition to the parties which are prepared to do what is useful to the country even without direct representation. i believe that the issue of stable and equitable growth should be seen in two ways in the issue of support for enterprises: access to credit and innovation. the commission and europe are able to do this in practice. as we recapitalize banks and help recapitalize banks, even perhaps with public support, we must demand that this credit goes to the real economy, above all to the real economy. at a time when horizon 2020 will be one of the main dossiers, we need to do research that is largely focused on innovation for businesses, large or small. the chapter on the digital agenda is also very important because the creation of this single market will be a great help to society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very disappointed by the speech by president barroso, a long list of subjects without any indication of priority. i think that the basis for the coming year should be to concentrate all our efforts on starting a uniform growth process in all the countries of the european union. so resources must first be found and an important instrument such as the financial transaction tax cannot be devalued by reference values which make it more symbolic than concrete. president barroso then said that social dialogue was necessary. so we must act on all the factors that determine social cohesion. we must quickly adopt a proposal for the reorganization of the social security system which will give stability and security to the millions of people who are now working, and i would say that we must also bring the horizontal social clause, which is the theme of this year, to a positive conclusion. if there is to be a change in work and if there is to be a recovery in employment, as we all hope, it is very important that the rights of working people be guaranteed in all circumstances.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that some of the major economies have already declared that they will not sign a kyoto 2. the european council of 23 october, noting this negotiating deadlock, declared that the european union was only willing to sign up to kyoto 2 as part of a transition towards a global climate treaty with a timetable and a timetable set by all countries. commissioner hedegaard himself has indicated that unilateral action would be a strategic mistake. the european parliament, however, is still living in utopia and is calling, in yet another resolution, which is completely out of touch with reality, for the european union to commit itself to a unilateral reduction in emissions of even more than 20%. what is the use of parliament's mission to durban, since it has no negotiating role, all the more so on the basis of this resolution which is in danger of becoming the end of the scrap of paper? the conference of presidents would do well to save on this useless kermesse, nothing more than a luxury showcase for some, by abolishing it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the figures actually show that europe alone cannot contain the effects of climate change. the data tells us that in 2010 33.5 billion tons of co2 were put into the atmosphere, an increase of 5.9% over the previous year. we know that the main emitters are the united states and china. we also know that china is the largest producer of co2 and that its economy is very much based on coal-fired power, which accounts for one-fifth of the energy produced in china, and that a large part of the domestic heating in china is coal-fired. i think what all this tells us is that we have to change our approach. copenhagen was a disappointment to high hopes, while cancún, when it became more concrete, brought results. i believe that we must now focus on a new climate strategy that focuses on research, renewable sources and energy efficiency, which has not yet been fully exploited. according to a united nations study, of the $112 billion invested in clean energy worldwide in 2008, only $1.8 billion was spent on improving energy efficiency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the president of the european court of auditors, mr da silva caldeira, who came here today to present the 2010 annual report to parliament. i would remind you that the work carried out by this institution each year is particularly important: the commission's objective is to inform all european citizens objectively, by publishing its reports and opinions, for example on the most significant errors in the application for funds, thus helping beneficiaries to improve the format and thus to be more effective in obtaining the funds themselves. i understand from the president's speech this afternoon that the payments for 2010 under the accounts still have significant errors, amounting to about 3.7% of the european union's expenditure, which amounts to a total of eur 122.2 billion. i also welcome the fact that the president wanted to emphasize, namely that the error rate is not an estimate of fraud cases. often these are inaccurate estimates of costs declared for eu co-financed projects or declarations of ineligible costs when they were believed to be, and, a matter of particular concern to me as a member of the committee on agriculture and considering the expected reduction in funds, the error rate of 2.3% for agriculture with some substantial differences: the control of expenditure on direct payments did not show any significant error, while rural development payments showed a different error rate of 50%. finally, for the european agricultural guarantee fund, 27% of the payments checked are affected by errors.
member of the commission. − mr president, that was really one of the most heated debates i have heard on development cooperation and that is why i will pick only a couple of issues that i think should be highlighted. in terms of financial volumes, 0.7% of gni is really a very small amount of money. and for new member states, it is only 0.33%. second, development aid is clearly a form of investment: investment in our security. to take just one example, the eu’s operation atalanta to combat piracy has cost, i am afraid, more than all the development aid that we have provided. the root causes of piracy are not to be found at sea, but on land. this is just one example. if people are dying from poverty, with no access to food, they will go out to rob others. so it is very clear where there is investment in people. we should also learn courage from our african friends. 200 soldiers, mostly from burundi but also from uganda, have died this year fighting and protecting the somali civilian population. 200 of them died, 800 are injured. what they say is that when there were difficult times in burundi, they got help. it is about solidarity. and if there is solidarity inside the european union, we should also have solidarity with the poorest nations in the world. to answer mr kelly’s question on ngos, we are rich because of our civil society. i know that there are a lot of issues such as whether ngos should be more streamlined, but i think ngos are an asset to our society. even if their activities are not always fully efficient, they are doing what they do from the heart and i do not think we should try to limit them. at the same time, the eu basically provides support through states where we can. where we cannot, ngos are the most effective mechanism to provide support for people on the ground. on differentiation, the agenda for change is very clear. there will only be support to the countries most in need. by developing the fight against poverty, we can increase our support to them. my last point is on john bufton’s comment: it is wrong. we are accountable for each euro. yes, the court of auditors and parliament’s budgetary control committee look at how we spend – and how we document – each and every euro. there is what we call an ‘error rate’, but for these operations we put all the preconditions in place to monitor each euro spent and ensure that it is spent according to the needs, and to the benefit, of the poorest people.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, we should be proud of our assistance and positive example. the european union has brought other donors to this table where we share what we have. we should be proud that other countries – emerging economies – are joining the team of those who are supporting countries in need, and supporting people in need. this is especially true today. two weeks before busan, we should concentrate on effectiveness – on effectiveness in the investment sense. yes, this is investment. countries like poland understand that foreign support can be investment, enabling countries to become stable and independent. this is how we in the council see our official development assistance. we would like to support those who can achieve stability later on. certainly it is extremely important to share, and discuss, values and rules with the new donors. busan, and our joint position for busan, will be the space where we can discuss the rules with new donors. one of the most important rules, especially for us in the european union and in the council, is the issue of transparency. given that we are spending public money, first of all we should be transparent on our side. on the other hand, we expect this transparency also on the recipient side. we discussed this in the council yesterday. when we think about budget support, we discuss the responsibilities on their side, and what kind of conditionality we should apply when placing so much trust in a country to support the budget directly at sectoral level. we also understand that if we do not invest in development we will be forced to provide humanitarian assistance. we see this situation in the horn of africa. we see that the lack of resilience in local communities leads to famine – a situation which should not be happening at this time. unfortunately, it is happening precisely because there is not enough development, and we cannot provide effective support to these communities and these countries. finally, in response to mr berman’s comment, yes, we should support entrepreneurship. this is exactly where the key to development lies: in finding a way to empower local partners and local communities, with our support, to set off on the path to development. to sum up, i would like to say again that we should be proud of what we have done, and we should share with others the values and the standards we try to uphold. finally, when it comes to innovative financial instruments, we need them both for ourselves, to support our economies, but also to support those who are in need, especially when we are talking about our neighbourhood in africa. this is really also about our security. without development in these regions, we will also be in trouble. this is why we should try to build solidarity with the new donors to provide reasonable assistance to these countries.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 8.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the agenda includes the report by filip kaczmarek, on behalf of the committee on development, on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2010 (2011/2120(ini)) (a7-0315/2011).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 november 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on culture and education on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a decision of the parliament and of the council establishing a european union action for the european heritage label (10303/2011 2010/0044(cod)) (rapporteur: chrysoula paliadeli) (a7-0331/2011).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs paliadeli for the patient work she has done to bring this joint second reading of this measure together with the other rapporteurs, in particular that of my group, mrs sanchez-schmid. contrary to what many have said recently, i am very convinced of this measure, because we may have different ideas, we may think different things, of course, but if we are here, we are here because we believe in the european union and we believe in certain values that this union has determined and has seen come into being. these values are the result of a common history made up of many particulars in their own nations, in their own cities, in their own lands, but which have then determined a common civilization, a history, an identity and a tradition. we do not need to rewrite history to say that danzig has been a gateway to freedom and democracy for much of europe. we must not disturb the british soldiers who fought in the second world war, because they did not do so just for england but to restore freedom and democracy throughout europe. you don't have to tell me that this brand has a cost, everything that matters has a cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 november 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro was supposed to be a guarantee of stability and security, but it is proving to be a straitjacket that does not allow the sick states to implement the necessary measures. let it be clear that the sick are not just greece and italy, but the whole eurozone is in crisis. the dramatically funny thing is that there are two patients, who are called france and germany, who play doctor even though they have neither the rights nor the qualifications to do so. europe is moving further and further away from its citizens. in greece, a worker was not allowed to express his opinion by means of a referendum on the choice between a reduction in his salary by half or the bankruptcy of a foreign bank. it is not by imposing governments from above that situations are resolved. what is happening is yet another slap in the face to popular sovereignty. the european union should understand that the people are at the heart of everything, otherwise sooner or later the whole structure will collapse miserably. long live the sovereignty of our european states!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, i am starting with a crucial point in your speech, namely how we combine interdependence and development with democracy. in these days, in line with the demands made by many parties, including the european institutions, the main parties in italy have favoured the creation of a technical government whose task will be to impose sacrifices on a country which has always been reluctant to promote reforms and transformations. the creation of this government is, in my view, also a response to the intervention of mr farage, fully legitimized by our constitutional practice, by the consequent initiative of president napolitano and by the deep sense of responsibility shown in this circumstance by president berlusconi and the main parties in the majority and in the opposition. in this sense, the birth of this government is good news for europe and for the stability of the eurozone. of course, this scenario is also the result of the interdependence you mentioned, which links the member states of the european union and the most important players in the world economy. this sense of interdependence is at the heart of the political strategy for the future of our continent, and if those governments which are unable to cope with the circumstances in the face of considerable difficulties can and must take a step back, all the more should we not hesitate to question the leadership of the european institutions, mr president of the council and mr president of the eurogroup, when they fail to respond to the dramatic situation with courageous and timely measures. i am referring to the fact that, while we are waiting for the treaties to be changed, we must do quickly and well what the treaties allow us to do and what is being dangerously held back by an excess of subordination to the logic of certain member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr van rompuy, mr barroso, commissioner rehn, just yesterday the italian statistical office reported that tax evasion in italy in 2008 was 16% or 17% of gdp, amounting to an estimated evasion of between 255 and 275 billion euros. with this data there will never be any deficit control. in its annual report the italian court of auditors has said that the cost of corruption for 2009 is 60 billion euros and we will never have any kind of growth. the wage gap is increasing and so we have no social cohesion. i believe it is imperative that the european union updates its convergence criteria, including the addition of parameters relating to good governance and social equity. i must say that the commission's review of the tax shield of the last italian government, which in our view violated a large part of the european rules on anti-money laundering, competition and tax evasion - including vat evasion - was an aspect which was corrected following our appeal. it shows a lack of attention by these institutions to an approach which must be fairer and more comprehensive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me wish mr monti all the best for his work, for his appointment as head of the italian government is very good news not only for italy but also for europe. i think that this debate has clearly sent out strong messages from all the political groups, which i hope will be listened to carefully. the first message is that without instruments for growth and development, with fiscal austerity alone, the idea of a stability union is a pipe dream. the second is that peer government, this peer pressure that president van rompuy also spoke about, cannot work. we need measures that have a legal basis, we need institutions that are democratically legitimized. only this can produce a true european economic government. in all this, to think that the three-paragraph reform of articles 121 and 126 decided in berlin is a panacea is illusory, not only because of the difficulties and risks of this revision but also because of those three amendments, the first is useless, the second is irrelevant and the third is impossible. so our position is clear. first, before you change lisbon, apply it, read it and you will find that in article 136 and article 352 there are strong legal bases for strong governance of the euro area based on the community method. secondly, of course this parliament is not opposed in principle to a strengthening of the european union's powers through a reform of the treaty, but this mandate can be limited and must be balanced and this parliament will not accept a reform which, alongside stability, does not create a union of solidarity, growth and democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, mr van rompuy, i have worn a shirt with italy's name on it because italy, like greece, is ready to do its part. but without a european plan for investment and the fight against unemployment, the sacrifices risk being in vain. the policies of austerity must be followed up urgently by effective action for growth and development, and then accelerated on eurobonds, project bonds and the financial transaction tax, as well as the fight against tax evasion. to be credible, we must not only reassure the markets and support the banks, but also give more confidence and concrete answers to the european people, our businesses and our young people, who risk paying too high a price. as president van rompuy said, we must not only punish the guilty but feel united in a common destiny of responsibility, solidarity and social cohesion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a democracy is only a democracy if it is made up of informed, engaged and aware citizens. the cotonou agreement is important precisely because it attempts to provide legal support for the emergence of an active civil society in areas such as africa, which are still fragile in terms of democratic expression. but it is the africans who must be the main drivers of this social growth, and they must encourage all initiatives, even the smallest ones. the second review of the agreement, which took place last january 2010, should provide an opportunity to adjust the agreement in the light of recent and ongoing crises, including the north african democracy uprisings, climate change, soaring food and oil prices, the financial crisis and extreme poverty. however, it is still necessary to stress the imperative that the eu-africa strategy is people-centred, i.e. focused on the active participation of civil society. this is precisely the innovative aspect introduced by the cotonou agreement. the current agreement establishes cooperation in the economic, financial and political dialogue areas, introducing a new participatory approach. participation, a fundamental principle of eu-acp cooperation, is understood in article 2 as the primary instrument to encourage the integration of all sectors of society, from the private sector to civil organisations. these are the reasons why we voted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the text on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which, thanks to the quality of its work, has established itself as a key player in cooperation between the north and the south of the world. as a member of that assembly, i myself participated in the meetings held in brussels and in the work carried out in tenerife in april 2010 and in kinshasa, congo, in december of that year. it was precisely through these visits that i was able to see firsthand, as i did in 2009 in angola, the sad conditions experienced by certain peoples on a daily basis and, at the same time, to assess the efforts made by the acp to improve things. in conclusion, i would therefore like to stress at a particular historical and political moment, especially for the countries of north africa and the middle east, how the role played by the acp has been of fundamental importance, especially in the context of the supervision of the negotiations for economic partnership agreements, favouring the transparency of these processes and the development of disadvantaged local realities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal which aims to strengthen the sense of belonging of citizens to the european union on the basis of common elements of history and heritage, as well as awareness of diversity, and to intensify intercultural dialogue. i think it is extremely positive that initiatives such as the recognition of european heritage are being encouraged, which aim to bring citizens closer to the idea of belonging to a europe that unites us. the concept of europe often remains vague and the national one still tends to prevail. the european cultural heritage label has a special character: the commission considers that the exemption from the obligation to provide information on the historical value of a monument is justified by the fact that the information provided by the member states is not sufficient to demonstrate the historical importance of a monument, indicates that this site has an important role for european culture and explicitly emphasises the intangible value of the monument as a bearer of a historical and cultural message. it differs from other distinctions in this field that refer to the extraordinary historical, cultural or artistic value of the object by its materiality. of course, this does not mean that the historical substance of a monument is irrelevant, it is precisely this that makes it authentic through the physical tradition to convey in a convincing way the immaterial importance of the place, in short a symbol in relation to values and ideas such as democracy, freedom and diversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i personally find it interesting to have a european heritage label. at a time when, because of the continuing economic crisis, a certain euroscepticism is taking hold in many member states, i believe that an initiative of this kind can strengthen the sense of belonging of european citizens to the union. the characteristic element of the european brand is not the beauty of a site, but the symbolic value that it has represented or represents for the integration of european citizens on the path towards a better intercultural dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the rapporteur's position because i believe it is useful to simplify and facilitate a process which will allow the real and genuine promotion of the territory in all the member states, a potential moment of tourist attraction, a valorization of sites of particular importance, in short a certain identification of the fundamental values of the community in which we live. the strict selection of projects for educational activities which are mainly aimed at young people is fine. the european heritage label certainly points the way forward, both in terms of the rediscovery and rehabilitation of sites, but at the same time in terms of the concrete and authentic enhancement of sites of civilisation and of the concrete testimonies to which our memory must always refer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe and its history speak through the great achievements which have marked the civilization of our countries. much of europe's history is told through the streets, monuments and convents that made the path of the european peoples civilised in dark times. i share the approach of this measure which should of course perhaps be extended to countries waiting to join europe - i am referring to the countries of the western balkans - because i think it is appropriate to involve them in this project of identifying a european brand. i think their involvement would send a positive signal to them. i am glad that this measure has been adopted today by a large majority, and this gives me further confidence that the council will not put any further obstacles in the way of its rapid adoption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of promoting a european identity and of improving knowledge of our common history, especially among young people, is of fundamental importance, particularly at a political historical juncture such as the present one. in order to achieve this, i voted in favour of mrs paliadeli's report, in which i fully agree with the criteria for the identification of sites, which i believe should be transnational and should take place every two years, thus improving the quality of the process. finally, i fully agree with the role of this parliament, which will be duly involved in the process of selecting the sites selected. the european parliament has also long supported the development of this brand, first in its 2007 resolution on tourism and then in its 2008 resolution on a european agenda for culture in a globalised world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have supported the proposal for a directive on the implementation of a free and single european railway area. i am convinced that only the opening up of markets can improve the quality of the supply of rail transport for passengers and goods in europe. i am particularly pleased that article 32 has been adopted, because rail transport also causes noise. this is mainly due to the quality of the rolling stock, particularly in freight transport, where some completely outdated wagons are used. the resistance of the population to this noise is growing, and this is also likely to threaten the shift of goods transport, especially from road to rail. we must therefore take urgent action to reduce noise pollution. noise has to cost money, and i think the approach of article 32 is going in that direction. i hope that now with the council a rapid agreement can be reached on this point too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report has been passed by a very large majority in this parliament. i voted for it, but i would have liked to have voted for something different, something more courageous. i think that parliament has not taken advantage of the opportunity to go further. it is true that the single railway area can and must mean a much better relationship with consumers than we have had so far. but why stop at the single national regulator and not move towards a single european regulator? why stop at the question of unbundling, i.e. the clear separation of ownership and management of services? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall only be able to change the fate of the goods route, to improve the lives of people, to improve the lives of the free movement of goods when this single european area is useful. after all, staying off the tracks is better for your health than economic policy, because maybe if you stand too close to a track, the train will run over you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the first railway package is of the utmost importance in order to create a truly european railway area, which is more competitive, modern and efficient. we certainly expected a more ambitious final text in the face of a not very courageous position on the part of the commission. we are bringing home a more effective national regulator, which must fully fulfil its market control function, and greater clarity on financial management. we are therefore calling for a new directive on the separation of the infrastructure manager from the railway operator and on the opening up of the market. i believe that the liberalisation of the railway market, and in particular the opening up of national markets to non-national carriers, is a necessary condition for the modernisation of the european railway system, which will ensure that our citizens can move as comfortably as possible and without distorting competition between national markets. i can only stress the negative impact of the rejection of the amendment which sought to introduce a distinction between light maintenance and ordinary maintenance as opposed to heavy maintenance. a maintenance centre should not be obliged to provide heavy maintenance to all railway operators, because responsibility is at stake here, the principle of safety, which has also proved to be a very sensitive issue for european rail transport in recent incidents. i hope that in the next negotiations with the council a more ambitious position can be reached.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too voted in favour of this document because i accepted the thesis that 'a general test on liberalization is better than nothing' as the headline of finanza e mercati, a well-known italian business daily. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is already beginning to take account of the guidelines introduced and launched with the 2011 white paper on transport, but it is not able to go all the way, it is not able to express its courage to the maximum. as other colleagues have also pointed out, the rail transport sector has not grown since 2001, to the benefit of road transport, which is now showing a worrying level of saturation. i believe that with this decision today we are taking a step forward, especially in the introduction of new instruments for the regulation and financing of the transport system, but there is still a long way to go and unfortunately we will have to wait until the end of 2012 for decisions on real liberalization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the railway sector has always been a special context in which the competitive logic promoted by the single market and the european union has been slow to take hold. the deficit in services offered to citizens in this sector is linked to this delay. i believe that more transparent and easier market access conditions, together with explicit rules on conflict of interest and discriminatory practices in the railway sector, are the appropriate measures to encourage more competition. i fully agree with the legislative proposal on the obligation to separate completely the infrastructure managers from the transport service companies, i.e. the railway companies. i would ask the commission to submit concrete proposals within the time limits set. i believe that the measures contained in the report will make it easier to provide rail services and improve the quality of services for passengers and freight users. the report by my colleague gives concrete answers to the call for greater liberalization and competition in the railway sector and i have given my full support to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to halt the decline of rail transport by reforming it, paying particular attention to the right of european citizens to mobility. it is essential that passenger trains are able to transport disabled people in a dignified manner and at a reasonable price. it is therefore appropriate to establish minimum quality rules for railway wagons, to ensure that timetables and coincidences are respected, and to allow free competition between operators in order to maintain moderate ticket prices. we must insist that the major european infrastructure for high-speed freight and passenger transport be built. given the positive outcome on the cost allocation for the construction of the third crossing rotterdam corridor and the tav turin-lyon corridor and their inclusion in the ten major works recognised as necessary by the european union, work must begin as soon as possible. as regards the obligation to separate infrastructure managers from incumbent railway undertakings, which traditionally own the infrastructure, it is appropriate to provide for compensation for the costs incurred.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of the liberalized market remains unchanged from that provided for by the existing legislation and covers all rail transport services, with the sole exception of passenger services with a national scope. the demand we have made with all our strength was that the scope of liberalization should be extended to this market segment as soon as possible. the amendments proposed to this effect commit the commission to present, by 2012, specific legislation on the obligation of complete separation between infrastructure managers and transport undertakings, together with a proposal to extend the scope of liberalisation to rail passenger services operated at national level. in a liberalised market, which is the natural endpoint of the liberalisation process initiated by the european legislator, there is no doubt that the complete separation of the infrastructure manager from the railway undertakings is a basic prerequisite for the optimal functioning of the competitive mechanisms. i also hope that the delays will be liberalized, so that the delays which accumulate in some countries such as mine, once liberalized, will spread and be shared among all the european countries and perhaps some, like italy, will gain in punctuality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the forthcoming un international conference in durban because i believe that the challenge of climate change due to global warming requires, now more than ever, a very strong commitment on the part of europe. the climate disruption caused by global warming is backed by overwhelming scientific evidence, and the resulting environmental, human and economic damage is now in plain sight. reality forces us to make quick and courageous choices. europe must maintain a leading role in the fight against global warming, with a commitment to help other countries in terms of technologies and resources. we must also recover these resources by introducing a tobin tax on international financial transactions. durban must lead to a legally binding international agreement with concrete results for the fight against global warming and above all it must produce a clear timetable with precise deadlines and commitments for all countries of the world. all countries must finally put their own particular interests ahead of the collective interests because either we commit ourselves, or we all pay a very high price. these are challenging, very important and compulsory choices, because there is no plan b yet.
mr president, the resolution voted this morning calls on the european union to come to the negotiating table with a commitment to reduce emissions by more than 20% by 2020, regardless of the outcome of the international negotiations. as is well known, there is no prospect of reaching a global agreement in durban. the european commission has said that the earliest possible date for a comprehensive agreement could be 2015 and that a transition period would be in place until then. i believe that the international context does not allow us to go beyond the objectives already set. the european union already has a commitment after 2012, namely to reduce emissions by 20%, as provided for in the climate and energy package. the european union further confirms its willingness to sign a second commitment period only as part of a transition to a comprehensive climate treaty that requires agreement by all countries on a timetable and roadmap. commissioner hedegaard herself said that it would be a strategic mistake for the european union to sign a second kyoto commitment without the participation of other economies. moreover, it is known that some major economies have already declared that they will not sign a kyoto 2.
mr president, in december 2009 i attended cop15 in copenhagen as an official member of the european parliament delegation. it is with regret that i say that the work done and the commitments made in copenhagen and formalised in cancún will not be enough to achieve the objective of limiting the increase in the average annual temperature of our planet to two degrees celsius. some large emitters, such as japan and russia, seem to be evading their commitments, while others do not seem to be giving the problem of climate change the right priority. today, while i am voting in favour, i am aware that only with the strong and unwavering will of the heads of state and government of the world can we create the conditions for a comprehensive international agreement.
in writing. − the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in question is part of a larger request by ireland for a total amount of eur 35 741 805 for 5 987 eligible redundancies in 3 272 enterprises in the construction sector. in particular, the present application 'construction 41' asks for the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 12 689 838 for ireland in respect of 3 205 eligible redundancies. i have voted in favour of this report, without raising any criticisms and in accordance with the eligibility criteria.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, the proposal to mobilise the fund for ireland arises from the need to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in the light of the foregoing and in view of the importance of the proposal for a decision under consideration, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision, considering that it may provide for measures in favour of vocational guidance, training programmes and related training allowances and support and on-the-job and off-the-job training for dismissed apprentices.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague on her excellent work, considering that this request to mobilise the fund is the 19th one submitted to the budgetary authority in the year 2011 alone. the european country calling for it this time is ireland, which is calling for it to be activated in three questions put to the vote this morning. the first was for assistance in respect of 4,866 redundancies, of which 3,205 were eligible for assistance from the fund, in firms operating in the building construction division, then for 842 redundancies, of which 554 were eligible for assistance from the fund, in firms operating in architectural and engineering firms, and finally for 3,382 redundancies, of which 2,228 were eligible for assistance from the fund, in firms also operating in specialised construction works. of the various crises that have hit the european economy over the last three years, one of the most substantial and lasting (and we have just experienced it again today), difficult to overcome, is the so-called "brick crisis", the recession has affected and still affects the construction market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the application to mobilise the egf submitted by ireland on 9 june 2010. at a time of perhaps unprecedented economic crisis, i think it is right to approve the allocation of the funds needed to support the calls for mobilisation made by ireland, as in the text in question, as well as by other countries where valid requirements have been found.
in writing. − the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in question is part of a larger request by ireland for a total amount of eur 35 741 805 for 5 987 eligible redundancies in 3 272 enterprises in the construction sector. in particular, the present application 'construction 71' calls for the mobilisation of the egf for an amount of eur 1 387 819 for ireland in respect of 554 eligible redundancies. i have voted in favour of this report, without raising any criticisms and in accordance with the eligibility criteria.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, and given the small size of the export-oriented economy, ireland has suffered the effects of credit contraction on its major trading partners following the financial crisis, linked, in this specific case, to the sub-prime mortgage crisis in the united states in mid-2007. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in question is part of a larger request by ireland for a total amount of 35 741 805 eru for 5 987 eligible excesses in 3 272 enterprises in the construction sector. in particular, the present application 'construction 43' asks for the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 21 664 148 for ireland in respect of 2,228 eligible redundancies. i have voted in favour of this report, without raising any criticisms and in accordance with the eligibility criteria.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, the proposal to mobilise the fund for ireland arises from the need to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in the light of the foregoing and in view of the importance of the proposal for a decision under consideration, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision, considering that it may provide for measures in favour of vocational guidance, training programmes and related training allowances and support and on-the-job and off-the-job training for dismissed apprentices.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the ongoing process of globalisation of world markets. this fund is in favour of the workers and does not want to act in any way for the benefit of the company which made the redundancies. as regards the mobilisation of the fund for the case in question, i voted in favour because there are no criticisms and the application meets the eligibility criteria. austria requests the mobilisation of eur 3 643 770 for 502 eligible workers in the 'land and pipeline transport' sector.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, the proposal to mobilise the fund for austria arises from the need to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. in the light of the foregoing and in view of the importance of the proposal for a decision under consideration, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision, considering that it may provide for measures in favour of vocational guidance, training programmes and related training allowances and support and on-the-job and off-the-job training for dismissed apprentices.
in writing. − the european commission, in considering austria's request, has assessed the economic and financial crisis which has created excesses and major structural changes in world trade flows. in 2009 the average european national road transport of full load vehicles recorded a -25% decrease in terms of journeys and a -27% decrease in terms of turnover compared to the previous year. international full load transport journeys decreased by an average of 22%, while turnover fell by 25%. in this particular case, this is the 30-50% decrease in freight transport in austria in july 2009. for lorries with a total authorised weight exceeding 3,5 tonnes, traffic in the first half of 2009 decreased by 17% compared to the same period of the previous year. these downward trends continued in 2010, forcing many austrian road transport companies to make redundancies. the crisis, which affected the behaviour of european consumers and led to a decline in the production of goods, certainly had a particularly negative impact on the transport sector, which manifested itself later than the basic industrial sectors of the secondary sector.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the ongoing process of globalisation of world markets. this fund is in favour of the workers and does not want to act in any way for the benefit of the company which made the redundancies. in this case, i voted in favour because greece's request to mobilise the egf for an amount of eur 2 918 500, in respect of 642 surpluses eligible for assistance from the fund, was not particularly critical and met the criteria for its mobilisation.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, the proposal to mobilise the fund in favour of greece arises from the need to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the world financial and economic crisis. in the light of the foregoing and in view of the importance of the proposal for a decision under consideration, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision, considering that it may provide for measures in favour of vocational guidance, training programmes and related training allowances and support and on-the-job and off-the-job training for dismissed apprentices.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is certainly to improve the legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to all european workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. in the context of the current economic and market crisis, greece has requested assistance in relation to 642 redundancies, all of which were eligible for assistance from the fund, in two retail businesses operating in the regions of central macedonia and attica, where the majority of aldi resales are located. it is therefore necessary that the institutions concerned make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to speed up the mobilisation of the egf. at the same time, further procedural improvements in the context of the upcoming egf revisions and the achievement of greater efficiency, transparency and visibility of the fund are also desirable.
in writing. − mr kaczmarek's work consists of the annual report on the work of the acp-eu joint assembly for the year 2010. i voted in favour of the report because i think it is well balanced and makes interesting suggestions for the future activities of the assembly. the european parliament is invited to take a greater part in the work of the commission, cooperation between african and european countries on democratic control is recommended, the situation in haiti, madagascar and south sudan is to be monitored, a mission to the horn of africa is to be sent and electoral monitoring activities are to be continued.
in writing. − we welcome the work carried out in 2010 by our acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which has succeeded, thanks to the quality of its work, in establishing itself as a key actor in north-south cooperation. this assembly continues to play an important role in the supervision of the negotiations for economic partnership agreements (epas). all the hearings of the negotiating heads of both sides, the meetings with the economic and social players, and the interaction between meps and those from the south, have helped to make the process more transparent and to take better account of local realities. in 2010, an important achievement was the negotiation of proposals for the second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement. this revision provides for the necessary strengthening of the role of the assembly itself in the control of the other institutions and for the purpose of the regionalization process. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the establishment of the european external action service will have a major impact on relations between the joint parliamentary assembly and the other institutions. we therefore hope that the absence of the eu council at its 20th session will be remedied in 2011 and we encourage better cooperation between all relevant european institutions.
in writing. - my vote on the kaczmarek report is in favour. it identifies relevant areas where further work is needed, such as election monitoring and business support.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the important commitments undertaken by the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and the relevance of the decisions taken, such as the reconstruction of haiti after the disaster, the monitoring of the situation in south sudan and the support for food security and the situation in the sahel-sahara, have enabled the assembly, thanks to the quality of its work, to establish itself as a key actor in north-south cooperation. in the light of the foregoing and in view of the importance of the house, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides a complete and comprehensive overview of the activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly for the year 2010. at the various sessions, documents were adopted on extremely sensitive issues, ranging from a resolution on post-disaster reconstruction in haiti to the situation in south sudan, and six sets of conclusions on regional strategic documents for the six acp regions were adopted. the aim now is for the assembly to establish itself as a key player in north-south cooperation worldwide, with an increasingly important role in overseeing the negotiations for economic partnership agreements.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european heritage label because it strengthens the sense of belonging of european citizens to the union. the brand certainly adds value to the sites to which it is assigned. the latter will have to have a symbolic value for the integration and history of the european union and will be identified on voluntary application in relation to the activities and the educational dimension they offer, especially for young people. the identification of sites that are emblematic of europe's common history and heritage will strengthen european identity, including through cooperation instruments that will foster intercultural dialogue, the exchange of ideas, projects and good practices, and a relationship of solidarity for the benefit of the whole of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european heritage label. when we speak of culture at european level, we are referring to the individual cultural experiences of the various member states, while we rarely refer to the common heritage, that is to say the european heritage, which goes beyond the boundaries of individual national 'stories'. the european brand, in this respect, is a key initiative that bears witness to europe's common roots, regardless of the sites of the past. the european label will therefore strengthen the cohesion, visibility and credibility of the whole of europe by defining clear and rigorous selection criteria and will be awarded every two years after approval by an authoritative and independent committee. the metric of judgment will not be the beauty of the site, although it is the subject of evaluation, but its intrinsic and symbolic value, mainly concerning european integration. the european union's brand is therefore essential for the development of a cultural europe and not just a more economic and political one.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal to establish a european heritage label. the importance of the symbol as a carrier of values and a tool for cementing the sense of belonging of european citizens is known and shared. the places and symbols which have accompanied the history and construction of europe must be recognizable and widely disseminated. it is precisely because of the common basis of values which the member states share, and in turn because of the differences which distinguish us from one another, that particular attention is needed in evaluating the applications against pre-defined criteria which take advantage of a broad sharing and balance in the re-reading of european history.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the new criteria and the new selection and control procedures will ensure that the label is only awarded to the most relevant sites and that those which no longer meet the required criteria lose it. my vote is therefore against
in writing. - we support this proposal for a european heritage label because it aims to strengthen the sense of belonging of european citizens to the european union, based on common elements of history and heritage and awareness of diversity, and thus intends to intensify intercultural dialogue. we believe that the proposal adequately emphasises the added value of this brand compared to other initiatives in the field of cultural heritage. it does not refer to the beauty of a site or its architectural quality, but to its symbolic value in relation to european integration and the history of the union. the reference is not to the conservation of the sites themselves, but to the activities they offer and their educational dimension, especially for young people. finally, the label will help the sites to which it is awarded to become more effective through mutual cooperation. we believe that a two-year award of the label to sites will ensure a higher quality both in the selection process and at the level of the sites selected.
in writing. − creating a european heritage label means creating a common european identity and increasing citizens' interest in the union and its origins, while reducing the gap between the european institutions and its citizens. the policy objective of the european heritage label should be based on close cooperation between the sites awarded the label, with the aim of sharing best practices and initiating joint projects, thereby promoting transnational cohesion. i believe that the role of the european parliament should be implemented in the award process, including through close cooperation with the european commission on the selection of the sites nominated. knowledge of europe's history and participation in actions to support intercultural dialogue are, within initiatives such as the european heritage label, a step forward in reinforcing citizens' confidence in europe. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is important that a european union action on the european heritage label is established. i agree with the council's position at first reading and i hope that the recommendation will be adopted.
in writing. - mr president, the intergovernmental initiative of 2006 was a success and 68 sites in 18 member states have been awarded the europa label. the political agreement in the council for a joint action on the european heritage label is an important choice as it transforms the initiative of governments into a formal act of the union. the trade mark has the function of recognising the aesthetic and/or historical value of a place, embodies a high symbolic significance for european cultural heritage and contributes to promoting the ideals of democracy and human rights at the basis of european integration. this initiative represents the concept of excellence to which europe is linked by its artistic tradition and its aesthetic vocation, excellence that extends and manifests itself in the manufacturing and gastronomic sectors. the fact that cultural tourism is increasing under the 'european brand' is a good sign, it is the conviction that there is a heritage of excellence and beauty worth discovering and making known. it will be a source of pride for europeans and a clear warning to preserve this treasure for future generations. i am voting for the resolution with conviction and i thank mrs paliadeli for her excellent work.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, despite the importance of strengthening the sense of belonging of european citizens to the european union, on the basis of common elements of history and heritage as well as awareness of diversity, and in intensifying intercultural dialogue, i do not value this initiative of considerable importance, which is why i feel i must express my vote against it.
in writing. - the report by mr paliadeli was voted on today in plenary. following the decision taken today, 16 november, a european heritage label will be available from 2013 on a voluntary basis to sites that are symbols of european history and integration. from 2013, each member state may propose up to two candidate sites every two years. the label will guarantee the quality of the selected sites, which may be natural, submerged, archaeological, industrial or urban monuments or sites, cultural landscapes, places of memory, cultural goods and objects or intangible heritage associated with a place. the label may also be awarded to contemporary heritage sites which are of relevance to the history and common heritage of europe, as well as for architectural or aesthetic merits. member states will be responsible for the management, protection and promotion of the sites. the commission will be responsible for the communication and sponsorship of the brand, including the creation of a dedicated website for the project and the promotion of networking activities for the branded sites.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i consider it a highly significant gesture to give the possibility of awarding, from 2013 onwards and on a voluntary basis, a european heritage label to places that are symbols of the history and integration of the old continent. the label will guarantee the quality of the sites selected, which may be natural, submerged, archaeological, industrial or urban monuments or sites, cultural landscapes or places of memory. this decision is another arrow in our bow to safeguard, promote and protect the wealth of europe, the importance of which is often underestimated.
in writing. − the first railway package adopted in 2001 was an attempt, unfortunately unsuccessful, to halt the decline of rail transport. the whole system has failed to catch up with other modes of transport, such as road transport, and the data confirms this. between 1996 and 2008, rail freight transport decreased by around 2-10,8%, while road freight transport increased from 42,1% to 45,9%. the causes are varied. transnational rail services face many technical, legal and political obstacles unlike road services. the commission has also taken the view that the aid should be limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the common market. the railway system needs strong support, also in the light of the co2 reduction pursued by europe, which retains considerable growth potential while, on the contrary, road transport shows increasing signs of oversaturation. the report therefore has the merit of promoting the creation of an integrated and global european railway area. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i too want to join, not out of practice but out of conviction, in thanking my colleagues for the work they have done, a complex work but one whose result, i think, we can all be pleased with, especially as regards the development of a new concrete action plan. in this respect i have welcomed and supported the proposal for the reform of the comprehensive and integrated european railway area, because it lays the foundations for overcoming the limits imposed by the interests defined at national level in the sector and aims at last at the construction of a truly european railway area in which passengers and goods can cross borders without complications. the report sends a very clear message to our governments: coordinated action is necessary to ensure effective and rigorous enforcement of safety standards. compliance with new safety requirements should therefore play a more important role when operators apply for a licence and the commission should therefore collect more data. i sincerely hope that this impetus will enable the railway market to make our economy more efficient and more competitive in terms of resources.
in writing. − the first railway package adopted in 2001 sought to reform the european regulatory framework and aimed to ensure the integration of the sector, improving its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport. unfortunately, after ten years, we can sadly see that this first reform has not been able to bring about any significant improvement in the situation of the railways. rail transport has not been able to catch up with other modes of transport, in particular road transport. one of the main reasons is the discrepancies in national rules and the incorrect implementation of the first railway package by many member states, many of which ended up neglecting rail financing while providing maximum support to road infrastructure. the current system has revealed its shortcomings. the rules therefore need to be strengthened and harmonised and new elements need to be added to make railways a more attractive mode of transport for passengers and goods. we therefore support this report because, with its revisions, it sets itself the ambitious goal of achieving a comprehensive and integrated european railway area, a genuine european railway area in which passengers and goods can cross borders without problems.
in writing. the distance between the railway sector and the other transport sectors must be bridged urgently. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the 2001 railway package is no longer sufficient.
in writing. − rail transport has not yet fully developed its potential at european level. there is still too much fragmentation and lack of competition, which results in a disadvantage for all citizens who would like to use this safe, economical and environmentally friendly means of transport. the increasing interconnections in european mobility require greater harmonisation between the different regulations, with the ultimate aim of benefiting the users of the service, i.e. passengers, through reduced fares and the guarantee of easier travel within the different countries of the european union. the report sets out these and other shared priorities, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, since the first reform in the railway sector, the first railway package adopted in 2001 with the aim of halting the steady decline of rail transport, has not produced the desired results, as it has not significantly improved the situation of railways in europe, a new reform is therefore necessary to reconcile the differences between the many national rules and to ensure the development of the sector. in order to ensure that employment development and working conditions in the railway sector play a more prominent role in the legislation in force, so that safety standards can be as stringent as possible, although i cannot agree with the whole text, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs serracchiani on her excellent work. the rail system must catch up with other modes of transport. at present, the market share of rail freight in the eu does not exceed 7% and is limited to 11-12% for passenger services. the implementation of the single european railway area requires the strengthening of the rules on fair competition, in particular for cross-border routes. i believe that each member state should ensure the independence and impartiality of the national supervisory authority in order to eliminate discriminatory competitive practices in regard to tariffs and the allocation of tracks and by allowing access to related services (such as ticket sales, repair and maintenance facilities, stations and sorting stations, etc.). i also call on the european commission to present a legislative proposal before the end of 2012 on the complete separation of infrastructure management and transport services and on the opening of national rail passenger transport markets to free competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is useful in encouraging the entry of new railway operators into the european market and in stimulating the supply of quality services. the rail system must catch up with other modes of transport and to do this, competition rules must be strengthened. each member state should ensure the independence and impartiality of the national supervisory authority in order to eliminate discriminatory competitive practices, in particular as regards tariffs, the allocation of tracks and access to related services. it now becomes necessary for the european commission to present a legislative proposal on the complete separation of infrastructure management and transport services before the end of 2012.
in writing. the next climate change conference will be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december. the resolution calls on the union to give its full support to the continuation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012, despite the fact that major emitters such as japan, canada and russia have already publicly stated that they will not sign a second commitment period. therefore, there is no prospect of a global agreement in durban. the european commission has said that the first likely date for a comprehensive agreement could be 2015 and that a transition period would be in place until then. i recall that the climate and energy package, adopted in 2008, was based on the premise that the other major emitters would follow europe's example and commit to legally binding measures. the lack of a global level playing field for sectors subject to emission limitations continues to exacerbate the situation of low competitiveness of european companies. i believe that the current international context does not allow us to go beyond the objectives already set. the european union already has a commitment after 2012, namely, the 20% reduction in emissions as envisaged in the climate and energy package.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is an incentive to do more to achieve the objectives closely linked to the issue of climate change. the temperature rise caused by pollution is a problem that must be dealt with and requires joint action and understanding with other non-european forces. the objectives set for the years ahead, in line with european strategies, can only be achieved by cooperating with the fast-growing countries in the rest of the world. the european union, for its part, has repeatedly reaffirmed its willingness to meet its commitments in this area and, if possible, to go even further, by reducing co2 emissions further by 2020.
in writing. − i find the call to develop a principle of 'climate justice' interesting, as the greatest injustice would be if the eu did not tackle climate change, as it would particularly affect the poor in poor countries. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the second motion for a resolution, which was voted in plenary today, two weeks before the un summit in durban, south africa, because i believe that the compromise is a good success. the eu has shown its intention to fight to continue the process started by the kyoto protocol and to control co2 emissions after 2012. the resolution, which was adopted by a large majority, also states that going beyond the 20% emission reduction target by 2020 could stimulate the european economy and develop new investments in renewable energy sectors and thus increase job creation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it stresses the fact that mobilising domestic resources in partner countries is the key to sustainable development. i expect the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness to produce tangible results as regards more effective aid. despite the progress noted by the eu accountability report 2011 on financing for development, member states must take urgent steps in order to honour their commitment to give 0.7% of their gni, and they also should improve their donor coordination, joint programming and the division of labour in the field. the eu development policy should aim to eliminate structural obstacles to the poverty eradication goal by implementing policy coherence for development between eu policies on agriculture, trade, investment, tax havens, access to raw materials and climate change. in addition to that, the commission should include, as a matter of priority, the fight against misuse of tax havens and against tax evasion and illicit capital flight in its development policy.
in writing. the next climate change conference will be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december. the resolution calls on the union to give its full support to the continuation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012, despite the fact that major emitters such as japan, canada and russia have already publicly stated that they will not sign a second commitment period. therefore, there is no prospect of a global agreement in durban. the european commission has said that the first likely date for a comprehensive agreement could be 2015 and that a transition period would be in place until then. i recall that the climate and energy package, adopted in 2008, was based on the premise that the other major emitters would follow europe's example and commit to legally binding measures. the lack of a global level playing field for sectors subject to emission limitations continues to exacerbate the situation of low competitiveness of european companies. i believe that the current international context does not allow us to go beyond the objectives already set. the european union already has a commitment after 2012, namely, the 20% reduction in emissions as envisaged in the climate and energy package.
in writing. − achieving the goal of poverty eradication requires a change of policies in both industrialised and developing countries. i am in favour of adopting this resolution because, despite the crisis, the european union has a duty to continue and even improve its development aid strategy for the third world countries.
in writing. − achieving the goal of poverty eradication in countries around the world requires above all a change of policies in industrialized and developing countries to address the structural causes. therefore, all member states should take urgent measures to meet the commitment to allocate 0,7% of their gross national income to the sgp and to maintain the specific commitments towards africa and the least developed countries by adopting fully transparent, binding and multiannual packages of measures, including at legislative level. the mobilisation of national resources is the key to sustainable development. european donors should therefore prioritise capacity building in this area, in particular through strengthening tax regimes and improving tax governance, stepping up efforts around the world to promote tax transparency and country-by-country reporting, and tackling tax evasion and illicit capital flight, if necessary by legislative means.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, in addressing the question of the process of cinema's transformation from the analogue to the digital age, the problems facing small independent cinemas in rural areas are being taken into account responsibly. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. this means that there are major restrictions on access to culture for rural areas which generally only have these small independent cinemas, not to mention the negative consequences on employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that european cinema should be supported in the challenging transition to the digital age. european cinema has enormous potential which must be supported. in the eu, which has some 30 000 screens, 1203 films were made in 2010 (compared with 754 in the us) and almost one billion tickets were sold, with a market share of 27%. however, the process of conversion from a film-based system to digital involves a significant increase in costs for both producers and cinema owners and it is necessary, in order to avoid a crisis in the industry and the cinema industry, to support funding for the digitisation of cinema through, for example, the structural funds. in addition, integration mechanisms between distributors and theatres should be encouraged in order to reduce investment costs. finally, monitoring activities should be continued to determine financial support for cinema and more generally for culture and education.
in writing. - i can only agree with this excellent report, which is full of interesting points for reflection. as a film lover, i very much appreciated the priorities listed by the rapporteur, especially the point on the digitisation of all our precious film material to allow the preservation of art, quality, culture, emotions, descriptions, sensibilities, history and the richness of pictures that only european cinema can offer not only to european citizens but also to the whole world. investing in this sector means looking beyond the simple economic and employment aspects: the cinema is nothing but a powerful medium of culture and education at the service of the citizen and helps him from a young age to deepen his sensitivity and knowledge in a pleasant way by providing media skills for a better understanding of the most varied topics. if this report is an important achievement, the will and the constant commitment of our institutions to promote film education are an even more important achievement in ensuring that cinema feeds european culture and industry.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cinema in its european dimension is an economic and cultural resource which must be protected and supported by policies which take account of the new technological advances and the growth prospects for peripheral and rural areas. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a timely reading of the media programme and of the entire european film industry can be the right lever to give a boost to a sector which, despite the crisis, has shown that it has the capacity to attract many european citizens. i think we need to invest and target in different areas: the implementation of digital technologies, respect for copyright, consumer protection, cultural promotion, dissemination in rural areas and the encouragement of the production of works which take account of the diversity of the european union while preserving its unitary spirit. taking account of the variety of these aspects in european policies in this field, the film industry will be able to look to the future with renewed economic and cultural ambition.
in writing. − this report invites us to consider the real function of cinema in europe and its role in the creation and sustainability of a civil society. we are called upon to support it by committing ourselves to ensuring the widest possible access to citizens in the name of unity and freedom of thought. european cinema is facing the most challenging challenge of all, namely to meet the demands of modern technology, such as the arrival of the digital age. modern technologies are changing the audiovisual sector, creating challenges and opportunities for production, distribution and accessibility. in this transition from analogue to digital cinema, operators in all member states must join forces at national and european level, both in the public and private sectors. the european parliament must initiate this paradigm shift by offering a financial contribution. one of the main funding instruments is the structural funds. we therefore call for an appropriate level of support to be introduced in the new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. − in a constantly expanding industry, which contributes considerably to technological and digital progress and job creation, it would be a good thing if we increased the number of european films screened in our cinemas. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i strongly believe in the need to promote culture to stimulate social and economic growth. the cinema, as a key expression of culture, must be able to take advantage of innovation without losing its traditional value. progress does not always lead to progress, but sometimes it distorts, even erases, important pillars of our civilisations. in this case, however, it is healthy to support the initiative to accelerate the switch from digital to analogue in cinemas, with additional funding instruments and dedicated resources within the eu budget. this modernisation must be supported by investment in the start-up phase. the product is highly remunerative in terms of increased and faster diffusion, reduction of operating costs and opening the market to a wide range of young talents, currently penalized by distribution costs. i voted in favour of this resolution because we do not want culture and social policy to be caught up in the crisis, victims of an outdated logic incapable of calculating the huge returns and the huge savings that these sectors produce.
in writing. - having regard to the relative importance of cinema in transmitting values and characters for the shaping and creation of a 'european soul', and having regard also to the important role that cinema plays in the creation and sustainability of a civil society, i consider it appropriate to support european cinema at this time when it is faced with a challenging challenge of adapting modern technologies. in view of the change in modern technologies for the audiovisual sector, aimed at the possibilities for the production, distribution and accessibility of european cinema, in order to support the process of transformation which should be completed rapidly and coordinated at national and european level, i agree with the whole text and i vote in favour.
in writing. - the report by mr borys was voted on today in plenary. the resolution highlights that all digital equipment is too expensive for small independent cinemas to keep up with the digital revolution. specific eu grants are being sought to help these companies invest in production, 3d projection activation and hd or blue ray technology. eu and national subsidies for european cinema should promote the diversification of film productions and the film circuit in order to promote the continent's diverse cultural identities. the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary legislative measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. the key challenge facing european cinema today, according to parliament, is to encourage audiences to go to small independent cinemas in towns and rural areas which are particularly vulnerable from a financial point of view and should be helped to keep pace with current technological developments.
in writing. - cinema to explain changes in society. this is the spirit of the motion for a resolution on european cinema in the digital age. the cultural film industry can thus convey and deal with european public policies. to do this, it is necessary to support productions, cinemas and festivals. the future of cinema is inextricably linked to the arrival of the digital age. european cinema has enormous potential. according to the european audiovisual observatory, there are about 30 000 screens in the european union. in 2010, the number of cinemas with digital projectors was 8,682, more than double the 4,129 cinemas in 2009. one of the channels for promoting and investing in the dissemination of european cinema in europe is through film festivals. member states and the european institutions are encouraged to promote, support and distribute the highest-value films by organising special events and festivals. an excellent example of the promotion of multiculturalism is the european parliament's initiatives concerning the lux prize and the forthcoming lux film festival.
in writing. - technology has changed and continues to change our lifestyles at a rapid pace. european cinema, like other sectors, is also facing the challenges of the digital age. just think of the cost of producing a celluloid film and the ten times lower cost of producing a digital copy, potentially distributed more quickly and translated into more languages. there is no doubt that the digital version can facilitate independent and low-cost productions. cinema is art, it is creativity, but we must not forget that cinema is also an important branch of the european industry, which needs public support to continue to be a valuable tool for the dissemination of culture. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the agenda shall include the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-us summit of 28 november 2011 (2011/2870 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation between the european union and the united states is destined to play an increasingly important role in transatlantic relations, and in this cooperation dialogue with the european parliament has a central and growing role, which our friends overseas have understood perfectly well, often better than many national governments and parliaments. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a legislative dialogue, but that it should also have a political and strategic dialogue on the major economic and foreign policy issues on which parliament intends to strengthen its action and make the best use of its prerogatives. among these issues i would like to highlight one of great importance, which was positively reflected in the joint resolution, namely the middle east question. we are committed to supporting the efforts of the high representative and the quartet to relaunch the negotiations between the palestinian authority and the government of israel, because we know that without negotiations between the parties there will be no peace and no two-state solution. but at the same time we believe that recognizing the palestinians' aspirations to be represented as a state at the united nations does not contradict the need for negotiation, but rather can strengthen it. we therefore call on the member states and the united states to promote pragmatic solutions to achieve this recognition, and that is why, in the context of the budgetary procedure, we are committed to strengthening the eu's financial support to the palestinian authority and we believe that the unesco boycott is a wrong and counterproductive reaction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the eu-us summit is playing a key role, especially at a time of such turbulence on the markets, of international crisis and of the united states of america and the european union seeking at the same time to ensure the safety of their citizens and, conversely, to promote prosperity in such a complex context. strong opposition to terrorism and organised crime we must not forget that it is precisely in these days that he has opened negotiations to define once and for all the pnr agreement, which should allow for greater circulation of information and an increasingly decisive opposition to terrorism. the atlantic dialogue is essential for the well-being of citizens but also for better helping developing countries with targeted and coordinated action. less tariff barriers, greater economic competitiveness and real cooperation based on trust. public procurement in which the principle of reciprocity can be recognised, as could be the case in a reasonably short time on an advanced trade agreement between the european union and canada. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. legal migration and labour market protection. a dialogue which serves to stabilize the euro area from the turbulence of the world market with the support of the united states of america. and yet information that can also be used in the field of research, based on innovation, to ensure the health of european citizens and at the same time of those in the united states, and on real and concrete cooperation.
in writing. iran continues to declare that it wants to pursue a civilian nuclear programme. but in fact, it has built research and facilities for military purposes, which have been verified by recent iaea inspections. this nuclear ambition, which is worrying in itself, is accompanied by a policy of repression at home and aggression towards other countries in the region, such as saudi arabia and, in particular, israel. this threat to stability is not only political or military, but also economic and strategic, because it could affect oil production with economic and financial consequences that would directly affect us too. a global threat must be met with a global response. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope it's not too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, internet-related applications and services still have a lot of potential, both for the economy and for a more participatory and inclusive society. today, as the telecom package is being transposed into national legislation, there is a risk of a fragmentation of the european framework. the monitoring role of the commission will therefore be important, and i would also say the role of berec, which some of us would have liked to have had a stronger role in defining the telecom package. the priorities we wish to reiterate in this debate are: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it will also be necessary to ensure that operators are not able to impose blocks and restrictions or discriminate against users and that they are as transparent as possible in their commercial offers and in all their activities.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is talk of an increase in violence against the roma communities and of the need for specific measures to combat the forms of discrimination to which the roma are allegedly subject in many european countries. in short, for years now it has seemed that the roma are the only minority worthy of attention and protection in this parliament and in the commission. we must make european strategies for them, with ad hoc funds for their social inclusion, we must promote european and national plans for the integration of roma children in schools and so on. that sounds like hypocrisy to me. no one has the courage to raise the problem of the crime phenomenon due to the roma communities, no one wants to talk about the difficulty for other european citizens to live next to the roma camps, no one talks about the violence that roma children suffer within their own communities, no one talks about the exploitation of roma children by their own parents who force them under threat to go stealing in homes or begging on the streets, no one talks about the abuses that roma children are victims of within their own ethnicity. like many european citizens, i would like to understand why europe has chosen the roma as a minority to be protected and supported at all costs, when there are many disadvantaged categories of people to help, especially in times of crisis. i would like to know why more is not done for the disabled in the labour market, for women, for mothers, for young people who want to start a family, for the elderly, for the unemployed. i would like to understand why europe, after throwing away hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros for roma integration programmes, does not spend this money to help the most deprived sections of our society. i am therefore interested to know what sums the commission and the council intend to spend on implementing yet another new european strategy for the integration of the roma, given that the roma are an ethnic group, a people who do not want to be integrated. they are by nature nomadic people who move around and do not want to settle in a country and therefore do not want to integrate. we must start with this fact.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus on one point, namely the roma children. the latest statistics say that only 40% of roma children complete primary school and in secondary school they barely reach 10%. i think this is a fundamental point, because children who do not go to school are children who will never have a future. as adults, they will be condemned to poverty, marginalization, unemployment and, in the worst cases, to the net of exploitation and crime. so school and training are priorities. in my view, the member states must guarantee the right to education and at the same time oblige roma parents to respect their duty to send their children to school, also in order to avoid the exploitation of begging which many of these children are in fact forced to do. if we do not act on this front energetically and as a matter of priority, all plans and investments will be in vain. so, in my view, together with the right to health and vaccinations for these children, the fight against school absenteeism must be a top priority of the new strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to know whether the roma themselves are interested in the european union's integration strategy. the roma are by their very nature and admission a separate ethnic group, with rules, organizations and traditions far removed from ours. they choose to live on the margins so that they can act freely according to their own dictates, and compliance with our regulations is the least of their interests. in my own region of tuscany, there were agreed returns paid for by the money of all the citizens. after accepting these returns for a good deal of money, the roma themselves have reappeared in the same places they left, making a mockery of everyone, the regions first. after all, one cannot expect much from a culture where stealing is tolerated, if not glorified. i think it is therefore useless to continue with this false european goodwill. history, too, has taught us over the centuries the true nature of the roma.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have only repeated what has happened in my region. there are newspaper articles that testify to this. i just reported the facts. since i am very much on the ground and know how the roma behave in my region, i only report their behaviour in this parliament. i don't think that was a racist speech. i think that reporting what is really happening in the territory is the most important thing for this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr gahler has also explained, cluster bombs are a terrible, deadly instrument of death for the civilian population. the banning of these is therefore a battle of civilisations in which this parliament has been engaged for some time. the entry into force of the oslo convention was a major success, but today, a little over a year after its entry into force, we are faced with a dangerous attempt to empty its achievements with an additional protocol to the convention on conventional weapons, the revision of which is being discussed in geneva these days, which would legitimize the use of cluster bombs. it is a protocol which should not be and cannot be signed by those who have already acceded to the oslo convention because, as you yourself said, commissioner, it is in clear contradiction with the convention itself, but it would also open a dangerous door for other countries which want to continue to produce, store and use this type of weapon and would also create a very serious precedent, a vulnus to international law. the argument of those who say that the protocol would improve the situation anyway, because it would be signed by countries which are not parties to the oslo convention, seems to us frankly pretentious and perhaps we would have liked to hear from the representative from the high representative ashton clearer and more unequivocal words on this point. the sixth protocol would undermine the convention because it would allow the use of munitions produced after 1980, which are the vast majority, provide for a long transitional period, allow the use of cluster bombs whose danger to civilians is very high and would not set clear obligations for the destruction of stocks stored by individual states. it is therefore essential that all member states do not support the entry into force of this protocol and that the high representative commits himself to ensuring that all the countries of the union take a clear and united line in favour of a definitive ban on cluster bombs. the joint resolution we are about to adopt in this connection is an important political signal and we are confident that it will be adopted in its entirety by a large majority.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr koumoutsakos on his excellent work. the proposal under consideration aims to provide the integrated maritime policy with a stable financial framework for the period 2011-2013, with a financial allocation of around eur 50 million. the proposed amount, although small, is still a reasonable starting point and must be increased subsequently. i also believe that specific resources should be allocated to the development and strengthening of the integrated maritime policy in the next multiannual exercise starting in 2014. this is vital to avoid all the progress and investment already made being wasted. the process of defining the next financial perspective has already started and, as the integrated maritime policy is one of the priorities of the union, sufficient funds should be allocated for consistency purposes to be allocated to that policy in due time. today, more than ever, there is a need not only to continue in this direction but also and above all to renew and strengthen the maritime policy within the community, bearing in mind our responsibilities in this area and starting from the idea that it is possible to reconcile the increase of economic activities at sea with the protection of the environment, and to develop a link between the two provided that appropriate governance and appropriate transversal mechanisms are in place. i therefore believe that the first objective for strengthening the integrated maritime policy must be to encourage as much as possible the sustainable exploitation of the oceans, while promoting the development of the maritime sectors and coastal regions. i also believe that the promotion of sustainable development, the protection and use of coastal marine resources and the development of targeted strategies for sea basins should be included in the general objectives of the programme which should be underpinned by more specific rules on spending and that parliament should be adequately involved in their implementation. in addition, the creation of a knowledge and innovation base must be continued and it is essential to present a comprehensive european strategy for marine and maritime research to this end. the european union has already taken the first important steps in this area by providing eur 3.9 million for the european marine biology research centre, an executive project with its institutional and administrative headquarters in naples, italy. i therefore believe, mr president and mrs commissioner, that we should continue along this path.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr koumoutsakos, for his excellent report. we worked well together, we made a nice trilogy, and so my thanks is not just formal, but substantive. we have also become a little bit of friends during this debate and i have to say that this friendship will probably lead us to give the commission a hand because, madam commissioner, the problem is the future. we have done what we have done thanks to parliament, because if it had been for the council - which is not here today - we would not have had this result. a proposal of eur 50 million was cut by the council and it was only thanks to the strong resistance of the undersigned and mr koumoutsakos that the commission was able to benefit from this eur 40 million. the commission can count on us for the future, it can count on a parliament which believes what it says. this parliament is convinced to the point that it knows perfectly well that the sea is made up of sea, coastlines and activities, and that there is a need for a common vision of these things. the coast cannot be the subject of urban and spatial planning which ends in the wet and dry. it is necessary that, in the minds of the european union and the minds of the states, urban planning should include the sea, not stop at the coast. the activities themselves must become compatible with each other. we must start planning in such a way that tourism, fishing, mining and - why not - this extraordinary wind energy that can be developed off-shore are a wealth and are compatible with each other, just as fishing and fishing activities cannot be lived in a vacuous way and dealt with only in terms of fishing gear and quantity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, you have a great ally in parliament. the problem will not be how to spend these 40 million euros, but how we will manage together to have enough resources from 2013 to 2020 to do these great and beautiful things.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much welcome the report on combating illegal fishing at the global level, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms isabella lövin, on the excellent way in which she brought together different opinions into a report. i know this is a controversial issue. i would like to congratulate her because her report deals with all the relevant issues. i would also like to thank all members of the committee on fisheries for their outstanding work on this report, and of course members from other relevant committees. in general, i fully agree with ms lövin’s analysis. illegal fishing is a global problem and a very difficult problem to handle since a lot of countries are involved in each operation. this is the great problem about illegal fisheries. you could have a greek vessel, a french captain, a korean crew, and they go to the canaries to land what they have caught, so it is very difficult to tackle the problem. that is why – after the implementation of the iuu regulation – we are trying to have a consistent stance inside the european union and outside the european union. this is a very important parameter if we want to fight illegal fishing. we have to behave the same way inside and outside eu waters, otherwise we cannot be reliable. i think two issues are very important here: better governance and transparency. we must also solve the problem of subsidies. we need to increase cooperation among market states, develop new tools at international level, and pursue the development of a global catch documentation system. i would like to highlight two issues; firstly on cooperation among market states, i have already taken the first step. we have signed the joint statement with the united states pledging bilateral cooperation to combat illegal fisheries. but we have to implement this agreement and we also have to have further cooperation and sign similar agreements with other very important countries. here we are planning to work with japan, canada and other countries – including china of course – because if we really want to combat illegal fishing worldwide we have to cooperate with everybody. secondly, i want to highlight the issue of subsidies where we have shared views. the regulation provides that subsidies can no longer be granted to operators involved directly or indirectly in illegal fishing. my services will now look closely into allegations relating to incidents that happened after the rules entered into force. for the previous period we cannot do much, but after the entry into force of this regulation we can do something, and that is what we are trying to do now. to make our framework even stronger, i plan to introduce two specific elements in the future european maritime and fisheries fund. first, conditionality. no subsidy can be granted to operators involved in illegal fishing. this will be a rule: absolute conditionality. second, financial correction. subsidies granted to such operators will be withdrawn. we need these clear rules to fill the existing gaps. i also subscribe to ms lövin’s views that illegal fishing activities by their very nature are in fact criminal activities. countries need to cooperate with each other in investigations, proceedings, and ultimately prosecutions if we want to actively combat these ‘pirate’ actions. as a final point, the eu as the biggest player in this market has a moral obligation to take the lead in this fight. i am looking forward to continue working with parliament and all stakeholders in order to best shape our role. i would like to emphasise that we are doing our best, but you need to bear in mind that we have just started. we have limited resources and we cannot be everywhere in the world, but we are going to use taxpayers’ money in the best way in order to have concrete results.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is so widespread at international level that it is impossible to estimate precisely how many tonnes of fish are caught illegally every day. as already acknowledged by the fao in 2001 with the adoption of an action plan against illegal fishing, the fight against this phenomenon is a priority for the international community. this phenomenon causes serious environmental, economic and social damage and, as the united nations report on drugs and crime also shows, is often carried out by real criminal organizations that commit crimes such as tax evasion, customs fraud, money laundering, bribery and bribery. the european union, with its regulations on unreported and uncontrolled fishing and on community control regimes, has provided itself with effective instruments to combat this phenomenon by defining obligations and opportunities for both member states and third countries. it is therefore important that joint action be taken at world level by all states, not just the european ones. to achieve this, the european union must first of all behave in an exemplary manner, taking all necessary measures, including against the member states themselves, to combat these illegal actions. i think it is useful to continue and even improve the various surveillance programmes in the developing countries. it is necessary to implement all the measures clearly identified in mrs lövin's report, which i commend, and which lead to closer cooperation, both at the legislative and operational level, in the various regional fisheries organisations. mr president, i conclude by saying that it is essential that the european union takes the necessary initiatives at multilateral and global level because, as is clear to everyone, this is a problem that the european union cannot solve alone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have the strong support of parliament in this case too. the work done by mrs lövin is extraordinary, it is a good educational work, although in some ways, on some issues, we could have dared to do something more. i have a different view, although i will support his argument, on the advisability and the opportunity of a european coastguard. i have a different opinion, but i'll support your position. the commissioner, the fact is that the commission must play a global role. we have said this in all the salts and i believe that here is the real key, which is to build a real foreign policy of this activity. the relationship with the united states, china and japan is fundamental in this respect, because within this relationship, within the construction of common rules and consequent behaviour, is the essence of this activity. so the real goal is to raise awareness that fish, as such, is a common good and it's a global common good.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, the international criminal court is the first permanent international judicial body with the right to try individuals for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. over the years, the international criminal court has made a major contribution to the establishment of a high-level system for the protection of fundamental human rights, by intervening in cases of impunity for the commission of highly serious crimes, both because of the crime itself and because of the large number of victims. unfortunately, the court is currently going through a difficult period for reasons of both political and financial nature. that is why parliament has spoken out today to emphasize the need for full and prompt cooperation between the member states, and not just part of it. each member state must be prepared to make its contribution to the judicial institution. only in this way, in my view, can the fight against impunity for these heinous crimes be made more effective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how important the role of the international criminal court is, which is responsible for prosecuting the perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. unfortunately, the court has recently been the subject of increasingly unjust political attacks. the warrants for his arrest have often been ignored and the current budget is therefore not commensurate with the efforts and commitment made. i therefore voted in favour of the text adopted today, because it is the task of the european union to take all the political, diplomatic and logistical measures necessary to support the court and to ensure its independence and proper and effective functioning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that maritime policy needs to strengthen its structural frameworks with a view to integrated and cooperative development, in full harmony with the spirit which is common to european policies. clarifying the objectives of maritime policy and identifying the appropriate strategies to be adopted is important to provide concrete answers to a sector that represents a high share of the gdp of the european union and for all entrepreneurs operating in it. we are as concerned as ever about the interests of the fisheries sector and agree on the need to combine them with the requirements for greater transparency and attention to sustainability arising from changing climatic, economic and social conditions. the allocation of eur 40 million provided for in the resolution is the first step towards redrawing the new strategic lines of a maritime policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the integrated maritime policy has the great merit of promoting integration between all the european union's maritime policies. i therefore voted in favour. i believe it is absolutely necessary to continue the work begun in 2007 by encouraging the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, combating illegal fishing and making the maritime transport system more efficient.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disaster that struck fukushima last march inevitably called into question confidence in nuclear energy. in addition to an initial response motivated by emotional impact, it is however right and appropriate to reflect on the investments needed to make this form of energy safer. europe, under the seventh framework programme for nuclear research, is called upon to do its part by financing the iter project, which involves international partners, and to bear witness to the ambition and importance of a path that provides security and promotes economic development for the well-being of european citizens. i voted in favour of the report because i firmly believe that fears about nuclear power cannot be overcome by stopping research or by proposing sudden alternatives, but by continuing to invest in experimentation in order to make this technology ever safer and more advanced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fisheries sector is a major economic lever for europe and it needs the protection and guarantees that come from joint action at european level, taking into account the needs of individual member states. the volume of illegal fishing is estimated at between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year, or about 15% of catches. these are impressive figures which require the institution we represent to take measures to combat this phenomenon which is harmful to both consumers and businesses. i therefore supported this report because, while we should give serious consideration to any measure to combat illegal phenomena, we must also avoid the tightening of bureaucratic barriers which restrict the commercial activity and development of enterprises, especially in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i agree with the intention to express our support for the icc, the rome statute and the international criminal justice system, whose primary objective is the fight against impunity for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. for this reason, the eeas, the eu member states and the commission should continue their vigorous efforts to promote universal ratification of the rome statute and to guarantee the independence of the icc. i strongly believe that a stronger icc is a step toward the main goal of the schuman declaration: building a lasting peace on the european continent and, more generally, to ‘make war not only unthinkable but materially impossible’. however, i would like to express my concern about the fact that so far the icc has only investigated cases located in africa. in order to avoid the legitimate criticism that this conduct has raised concerning the court, the icc prosecutor should balance the geographical scope of the court.
in writing. − the report proposes a stronger eu commitment to promoting the role and task of the international criminal court, a body of international jurisdiction that will try cases of crimes against humanity and genocide. as a newly created entity, and an international body with a very sensitive and important job to do, it is right that the eu should provide all possible political and diplomatic support to strengthen its functioning and powers, and to extend its jurisdiction in territorial terms. the european parliament's proposal to the member states that they should use diplomatic channels in their bilateral and multilateral relations to persuade important countries such as the united states, russia and turkey to accede to the statute of the international criminal court is also positive. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the international criminal court has over the years proved to be a very important body for the defence of human rights and for the respect of international law. i am pleased with the financial and logistical support provided to the icc so far by the european union and the individual member states. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document so that the international criminal court can continue to fulfil successfully its particular 'global mandate' in prosecuting perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. unfortunately, the court is increasingly the object of unjust attacks of a political nature and its arrest warrants are often ignored. the european union must therefore continue to support its work with ever greater commitment, through various political, diplomatic, financial and logistical actions, and at the same time contribute to promoting its independence and functioning.
in writing. the rome statute marked a major step forward in the field of international human rights protection. it is a fundamental turning point. for the first time it is possible to prosecute individuals found guilty of certain international crimes. until then, the main supranational judicial body had been the un international court of justice in the hague, which was set up specifically to ensure the "peaceful settlement of international disputes", and thus interstate ones. the parties involved were therefore the states, and the concept of international individual responsibility was not yet clearly defined. under the rome statute, the icc has jurisdiction in relation to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide cases, for which individuals are held and possibly found responsible. with the establishment of the international criminal court, the international community seems to be moving towards greater responsibility, by gradually abandoning a culture of impunity. the fact that an international body can, by applying the principle of aut dedere aut iudicare, systematically and automatically replace national courts in criminal jurisdiction, the quintessential expression of national sovereignty, is therefore a revolutionary fact.
in writing. − given the importance of the sector for the economic growth of the european union, i agree with the rapporteur that sufficient and continuous funding should be ensured in the next multiannual financial framework starting in 2014. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the integrated maritime policy can certainly be useful, but it still needs the right means and instruments. the report is moving in the right direction, and it gives a better indication of the aims and objectives of this programme. european seas can also be useful for creating new job opportunities, and maritime and coastal tourism still has considerable potential for development. it is true that the european continent has many sea basins, sometimes very different from each other: however, especially for neighbouring and contiguous areas, an integrated approach with shared methods and objectives becomes very useful. so, without prejudice to the necessary guarantees and specificities for the member states, i welcome the creation of common bases for a kind of european maritime governance, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i congratulate mr koumoutsakos on his excellent work. the proposal under consideration aims to provide the integrated maritime policy with a stable financial framework for the period 2011-2013, with a financial envelope of eur 50 million. the proposed amount, although small, is a reasonable starting point and must be the minimum. i also believe that specific and adequate resources should be allocated to the development and further strengthening of the integrated maritime policy in the next multiannual exercise, which will start in 2014. this is vital to achieve the objectives set and to avoid all the progress and investment already made being wasted. the process of defining the next financial perspective has already started and, as the integrated maritime policy is one of the priorities of the union, sufficient funds should be allocated for consistency purposes to be allocated to that policy in due time. this multiannual allocation of funds should not prejudice other eu policies which are already well established. furthermore, i believe that the first objective for strengthening the integrated maritime policy for the eu should be to encourage the sustainable exploitation of the oceans and seas while promoting the development of the maritime sectors and coastal regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is important to budget eur 40 million for programmes and pilot projects under the integrated maritime policy for the period 2011-2013. this will increase the potential for creating synergies to support economic growth, innovation, employment, social cohesion and environmental protection. this must, however, be seen as only a first step towards developing a genuine maritime governance that is truly integrated, in full cooperation with third countries.
in writing. − the text proposes a series of initiatives in all the areas of action related to the sea, in particular transport, fisheries, the environment, energy, industry, employment, research and external relations, emphasising the need to promote synergies through the application of an integrated approach to the various sectoral policies. the community institutions, member states and regions have therefore embarked on a process of creating governance structures to ensure that their maritime policies are designed in a way that is inspired by dynamic interrelationships with other policy areas. at the same time, cross-sectoral instruments such as maritime spatial planning, integrated surveillance and marine environmental studies have been progressively promoted and implemented with a view to contributing to a significant improvement in the management of the sea and coastal areas. the action plan provides for pilot projects and preparatory actions, but funding is only available until the end of 2010. the proposal for a regulation under review will provide the necessary legal basis for the financing of sme implementation activities in the period 2011-2013 in order to ensure, until the next financial framework applies, the necessary funding for the continuation of work and for the implementation of projects deemed to be of particular importance.
in writing. − the most authoritative global organisations have predicted that, with the expected tripling of world electricity demand by 2050, installed nuclear electricity capacity will also have to triple by 2050. hence the need to design and build from now on third-generation plants capable of coping with the scenario envisaged for the next few decades. the need to increase research in the nuclear field therefore arises. i believe that the practical development of research in all fields of science, through the efforts of many passionate researchers, is an absolute priority, and that the institutions must invest in it with courage, aware that a large part of the future of our europe and the security of future energy supplies in general and nuclear in particular at global level are at stake. a europe which does not invest in research is a europe which does not invest in the future.
in writing. − the legislative package in question aims to extend support for nuclear research and development actions under the euratom seventh framework programme 2007-2011 and will cover the two-year period 2012-2013, in line with the timetables of the eu seventh framework programme (2007-2013) and the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies. in particular, i think it is right to emphasize the rapporteur's position on nuclear research. after the tragic events in fukushima, the eu needs more research in the nuclear sector, not less, including to improve the safety of nuclear power stations and the management of existing plants, waste and waste disposal processes. that is why i voted in favour of mr březina's text.
in writing. the european council will be held on 28 november to discuss issues of importance in the context of the current european economic crisis. the union must have a united voice in this matter, showing confidence and ability to overcome the present situation. there is no doubt that sacrifices will have to be made, but they must also be made with a concerted and concerted effort on the part of all parties concerned, so as not to frustrate the efforts required at all political, administrative and social levels. the european union has the united states of america as its main partner in carrying out the main joint projects concerning economic relations, growth and the environment. the union must therefore present a concrete and united position at the next meeting.
in writing. − the eu and the us should increase their cooperation in order to promote peace, in particular in the middle east, and to support emerging democracies in north africa. it is of primary importance for the eu and us to push for a resumption of direct negotiations between israel and the palestinians in full compliance with international law, leading to a two-state solution on the basis of the 1967 borders and with jerusalem as capital of both states. the legitimate demand of the palestinians to be represented as a state at the united nations should be addressed by member states and the us. moreover, i want to stress that the human rights dossier and the nuclear energy dossier for iran should be kept clearly separate, and that no action should be taken by any state that could risk leading to a military attack against iran.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text being adopted. the most important point is undoubtedly the need to push for the resumption of direct negotiations between israel and palestine, in full respect of international law, in order to reach a solution that envisages two states on the basis of the 1967 borders and with jerusalem as the capital of both, with a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic and self-sustaining palestinian state living side by side in peace and security.
in writing. - i am pleased that the motion for a resolution on the eu-us summit takes up a subject which i consider to be fundamental and which was also raised at the g20 in cannes, namely an action plan for growth and jobs with a particular focus on young people. the project is divided into short- and medium-term measures. the problem of youth unemployment is the most dramatic economic emergency of recent times, which shows no signs of improving and has reached levels more than twice as high as overall unemployment. young adults who are forced to accept low-paying, low-reward, low-education positions. as recent research shows, generations who start working in recessions are penalized for the rest of their lives, with slower careers, less rewarding jobs and significantly lower wages even years after their first job. in addition, young people who have had to deal with a more difficult entry into the world of work also develop a greater risk aversion that they carry with them throughout their career, a mistrust of changing jobs and less ambition. this will not only affect the individual's personal destiny, but will also affect the whole community.
in writing. − in order to foster the development of the internal market and promote the proper functioning of competition, openness and neutrality of the internet, reforms in the telecommunications sector are a priority. however, i would remind the members of the council and my colleagues that new information technologies are used by different categories of users and are particularly easily accessible to the most vulnerable such as children, who need to be protected from the possible risks of grooming and child pornography online. i would remind you that the directive on sexual abuse, the exploitation of children and child pornography, which the member states must transpose within two years, was adopted at the last partsession. i would therefore like to remind you that, in accordance with article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the protection of the rights of the child is one of the fundamental priorities of the union, and must be given the utmost consideration in all european legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i find it fairly balanced between the needs of the various players in this sector. i think it is essential that parliament's position on such innovative issues should not be based on preconceived ideas but should always be open to the future. this implies the need to assess each issue on a case-by-case basis, because in the last 16 years, from the extension of the internet to all citizens to today, we have seen completely different phenomena, and with totally different political implications. the second important implication is that we should never put up any sticks that might be binding in the future. however, i would like to stress two things that must always be kept in mind: transparency and consumer/user protection. these are not two separate aspects, because the consumer must be able to acquire knowledge of the instrument he is using and make a conscious use of it. the consumer must never be turned into an uninformed user or, worse, a victim of the internet, nor must technology be allowed to impose choices which the market would have reason to reject.
in writing. the internet plays a fundamental role in the world and european society. its increasingly widespread use affects various aspects of citizens' lives and touches on fundamental social issues such as free competition in markets and freedom of information and expression. i therefore believe that we should promote openness and neutrality, while paying attention to the many implications that a sector that is often difficult to interpret, such as the web, can bring with it. risks and dangers are commonplace, particularly as regards the privacy of citizens and the safeguarding and protection of minors. the commercial aspect also provides an additional incentive to make legislative progress in this area in order to increase the prospects for entrepreneurship, while keeping in mind the measures needed to counter the presence of dominant positions in the market. the report also stresses that the freedom and neutrality of the net must take account of the distortions that may arise, so that they can be applied in their entirety and be truly useful tools for citizens and businesses using the net.
in writing. − the internet and the new digital reality have developed remarkably in recent years. it is therefore right to analyse the current situation and try to understand the problems of today and the challenges of the future. the resolution adopted, which i supported, sets out some of the main points: the first is to maintain the neutrality of the network, which must be opened up to an ever-increasing number of competing players. the development of broadband should also be emphasised in order to exploit the full potential of the network: only when this is fully completed will we be able to explore the additional possibilities that the internet can offer us, with enormous benefits also from an economic point of view. finally, consumers must be duly informed of all the conditions of their contracts and must be facilitated and protected in the event of a change of operator; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - today in plenary we voted on parliament's motion for a resolution calling for the internet to be kept open and neutral by ensuring that community telecommunications rules are adequately enforced. in addition, the need to strengthen the telecommunications regulatory framework and to closely monitor internet traffic management practices is emphasised, in order to preserve the open and neutral nature of the internet, while ensuring that the connections of the various users are not interrupted by network congestion and that internet service providers do not block, discriminate against or impede the ability of any person to use or offer any type of service, content or application they wish to choose, regardless of the source or purpose. i also believe that a reasonable management of data traffic is necessary and very useful to avoid network congestion and the proper functioning of applications and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that keeping the internet open and neutral, ensuring that community telecommunications rules are respected, is one of the keys to boosting growth and development in the member states. it would be to everyone's benefit if the commission were to set out more definite guidelines for the eurozone in the field of telecommunications. it also remains necessary to closely monitor the development of traffic management practices, ensuring that connections of different users are not interrupted by network congestion and that internet service providers do not block, discriminate against or impede the ability of any person to use or offer any type of service.
in writing. − member states were required to comply with the eu's 2009 telecoms reform package by 25 may 2011, and the commission has already taken action to ensure that the principles of the treaty on european union are respected. member states will therefore need to ensure a consistent approach to net neutrality and effective implementation of the revised eu telecoms package. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. transparency, quality of service and the possibility of switching easily between operators should therefore be essential conditions for network neutrality as they guarantee the freedom of choice and requests of the end-user. the commission will also have to assess whether further guidance on net neutrality is necessary for the purposes of competition and consumer choice.
in writing. - today we voted for the resolution banning cluster munitions, taking a further step forward in protecting civilians and soldiers during and after periods of conflict. since the entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions in august 2010, parliament has made further progress in responding to the humanitarian problems posed to civilians by cluster munitions after and during their release. in implementing the provisions of the abovementioned convention and this resolution, states should improve assistance to victims by establishing new common humanitarian standards and cooperate with third countries by promoting a ban on these munitions in agreements and by helping them to comply with the objectives of the 1998 ottawa convention on anti-personnel mines.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because our parliament must take a clear position against the use of cluster munitions. with this text we call on the council and the commission to include the ban on cluster munitions as a standard clause in agreements with third countries. cluster munitions represent serious risks to civilians and, in post-conflict settings, the use of these munitions has caused many tragic injuries to, and deaths of, civilians. as we unfortunately know, unexploded sub-munitions left behind are often found by children and other unsuspecting innocents. for this reason, member states should not endorse the draft text of protocol vi on cluster munitions to the convention on the use of certain conventional weapons. this draft protocol would only ban pre-1980 cluster munitions and threatens to undermine the clear and robust international humanitarian law standard established by the convention on cluster munitions (ccm), ratified by 22 eu member states, which comprehensively bans cluster munitions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i think it is essential that the member states do not even consider adopting, approving or ratifying the draft protocol vi, which will shortly be discussed in geneva. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the european parliament.
in writing. - cluster munitions are a large and growing problem. if such weapons can be further spread in terms of their use and who uses them, they will represent an even greater humanitarian and development challenge than landmines were in the 1990s. cluster munitions are designed to explode on impact with the ground. however, the failure rates are related not only to technical factors but also to the ground conditions and the height from which they are launched. it follows that if the submunitions do not work as intended, they will be deposited in the ground, becoming particularly dangerous, since they can explode at the slightest touch or movement. in fact, unexploded ordnance acts like land mines. the essential question has long been whether the production and use of cluster munitions constitutes a violation of international law. i am glad that the resolution voted this morning by the european parliament provides an answer to the question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. − directive 2009/47/ec allows the optional application (for member states) of a reduced rate for cultural publications in paper format (books, newspapers, periodicals and other publications). directive 2009/47/ec (recast) had, inter alia, extended the possibility of applying reduced rates also to publications on other physical media (dvd, cd, etc.). however, the directive does not allow the reduced vat to be applied to publications purchased by electronic means (by downloading). the motion for a resolution under discussion in this house today asks the commission to inform us of its intentions regarding any legislative initiatives aimed at extending the possibility of applying reduced vat to electronic publications, which would currently be discriminated against in comparison with those in paper format. my view on this is that it is also a good idea to consider reducing the number of texts that can be bought on the internet and are therefore increasingly available on the net. in calling for the removal of this discrimination, we are calling for the dissemination of culture, especially among young people, who, as we know, are increasingly using electronic means to obtain information.
in writing. - i vote against the report on the association negotiations between the european union and georgia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. however, there are at least two points which make me think that i should vote against the report: first, the possibility, mentioned in one passage of the document, of a future 'european' perspective for georgia, a country which has been experiencing a very delicate internal and international situation for years, with two small, essentially autonomous republics within it, even if not recognized as such by most of the international community. secondly, it is concerned that the association agreement may pave the way for negotiations on visa liberalisation. for these two reasons, which are far from being secondary, i voted against.
in writing. − the eastern partnership provides for the strengthening of bilateral relations through new association agreements, taking into account the specific situation and ambitions of each partner country and its capacity to meet the resulting commitments. georgia is undoubtedly one of the eastern partnership partners with the best record in terms of reform adoption, although problems remain with regard to their implementation, especially in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption. although the unresolved conflict between russia and georgia raises problems of political stability, i voted in favour of mr lisek's text, given the commitment shown on the issue of respect for human rights and the active participation of the georgian government on shared values and principles.
in writing. − article 2 of the treaty on european union lists equality and gender equality among the values on which the union is founded. furthermore, article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union firmly establishes gender mainstreaming as one of the union's priorities in order to remove inequalities. nevertheless, an action plan for gender mainstreaming in parliament's policies and activities is needed in order to promote equality between men and women, with increased solidarity efforts aimed at the integration and protection of women as an added value to the future growth of the union, both economically, politically and socially. i therefore strongly support mr gustafsson's report and i vote in favour.
in writing. - i am voting against the report, as the proposal would involve a constant and continuous evaluation of the implementation of gender policies through a heavy burdening of budgetary procedures. the basic rationale of this proposal is not in itself negative, but i do not agree with the very firm approach, which is very heavy from the budgetary point of view and the lengthening of procedures. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i think it is very important to integrate a gender perspective also within the european parliament itself. despite the fact that women often have longer and more extensive educational paths than men, they still struggle to reach their full potential in the world of work. women are still underrepresented at the top of social, economic and political life. i therefore welcome the decision of the committee on women's rights and gender equality to make gender mainstreaming the mainstream of all future parliamentary work and documents.
in writing. - the categories of men and women continue to be well separated by work, working hours, seniority, industry, employer and some forms of contractual status. women are more likely to be hired for lower paid jobs, and this provides an economic basis for their greater responsibility for unpaid domestic work and puts them at a higher risk of poverty than men. the extremely rigid pattern of employment for men and women is essential to identify gender differences in working conditions. gender-based policy impact assessment should also be carried out to ensure that the measures introduced do not exacerbate gender disparities but instead promote equality between men and women.
in writing. - illegal fishing is a widespread phenomenon: a recent study estimates that it amounts to between 11 and 26 million tonnes a year. in 2011, fao adopted an action plan against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is a priority for the international community. although progress has been made in specific fishing areas, in most cases this statement still remains a valid point of reference. in my view, the eu has a special responsibility in the fight against illegal fishing. it is the largest market for fishery products in the world. as about two thirds of the world's oceans are outside the jurisdiction of individual states, it is clear that national efforts and regional cooperation are not sufficient to combat illegality. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to set up new regional fisheries management organisations or to extend the mandate of existing ones to cover areas and/or species which are not currently regulated. in addition, since illegal fishing is facilitated by the lack of access to information, i consider it a priority to introduce measures aimed at increasing transparency in the market.
in writing. − the own-initiative report is on a topic of importance for the conservation of biodiversity and the health of marine fauna; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the common fisheries policy. moreover, the phenomenon is increasingly linked to other activities which are dangerous to peace and to the stability of civil coexistence among men. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the marine environment. i therefore welcome this report, as well as others on the same subject and with the same approach, because the eu must contribute to the efforts of the international community to combat iuu fishing by calling on itself and the member states to do everything possible to eradicate a criminal phenomenon, a criminal one that puts the survival of the marine ecosystem at risk and indirectly threatens international security.
in writing. - illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a huge damage to the whole system: several surveys show alarming figures, with no less than 15% of the world's catches reportedly coming from illegal activities. this fact makes it clear that, even from an economic point of view, this reality has become unsustainable. regular fishing also contributes to the respect and maintenance of appropriate criteria for marine environmental sustainability. it is easy to see how illegal fishing is difficult to trace back to the maritime borders of a single state, but often involves much larger areas, and therefore increasingly joint action and cooperation is needed. i also believe that the establishment of a 'european coast guard', as indicated in the report, could increase the common monitoring and inspection capacity and effectively combat current and future threats at sea, such as illegal fishing, but also terrorism, piracy, trafficking and marine pollution. the report under discussion touches on all these and many other important aspects, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. the report by mr lövin, which proposes to strengthen inspections, close markets to illegal fishing and impose sanctions on states which do not comply with the rules in force, was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. i believe that international action is necessary, because two thirds of the world's waters are outside any jurisdiction and the fleets of fishing vessels are mobile and often do not comply with regulations. the eu, as the world's largest fishing power, should take responsibility for mobilising the international community to this end. it is estimated that about 15% of the world's fisheries, between 11 and 26 million tonnes a year, are illegal. therefore, as the resolution states, it is impossible to defend marine resources without combating illegal fishing. the new measures should include mandatory registration of fishing vessels above 10 gt, the development of document retrieval systems, the mandatory use of electronic vessel monitoring systems (vms), the exchange of information on vessel activities, import controls and an agreement on the closure of illegally caught fish markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure because illegal international fishing is undermining efforts to conserve and manage fisheries resources in all the world's seas. this not only has serious consequences for food security and environmental protection, but also leads to the loss of economic and social opportunities in the short and long term. illegal fishing can lead to the collapse of a fishing zone, seriously undermining efforts to restore depleted fish stocks. the current international instruments to combat this phenomenon have so far been ineffective due to a lack of political will, priorities, capacity and resources to ratify them. the european union has a very important specific responsibility in this respect, as it is the largest market for fishery products in the world and one of the major powers in this sector.
in writing. − illegal fishing undermines efforts to conserve and manage fish stocks in all catch zones. this may make it impossible for national and regional fisheries management organisations to achieve management objectives. this situation leads to the loss of economic and social opportunities in the short and long term, as well as negative impacts on food security and environmental protection. the european union has, with its new legislation, equipped itself with the tools to combat illegal fishing. the union must first set an example in order to persuade other states to take action. the existing regional fisheries management organisations have significant differences in their approach to illegal fishing and the legal measures, including sanctions, applied to combat it. the global nature of fishing means that most of the measures to combat fishing must be implemented between regional organisations. finally, the european union could support existing global initiatives and propose new ones at the same time.
in writing. - 26 million tonnes a year, an exorbitant figure! the volume of illegal fishing has reached record levels, equivalent to 15% of catches, and is now the largest market in the world for fish products. it is therefore clear that the european union, through appropriate diplomatic action, must introduce the necessary measures to improve transparency and to curb the proliferation of illegal fishing. for these reasons i voted in favour of mrs lövin's text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, like mr daul, have not understood this very well, and all this is to be discussed tomorrow during the vote on the request for immunity from the motion by mr de magistris, who is no longer our colleague. i mean, we're discussing the immunity of a non-deputy during the vote tomorrow, if i'm not mistaken. i just wanted to get that straight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that what we are going to do tomorrow is in accordance with the rules of procedure. there is only one thing that worries me so much, that's why i'm allowing myself to turn to you now to have your full understanding: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that the commissioner has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner to ensure that the time is right for the catch-the-eye because many of us, myself included, might feel that we are intervening, and to close this debate at the time of the vote would be too much of a squeeze on it. so please ensure, mr president, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that the time is right for the catch-the-eye on this debate because many of us might feel that it is useful or necessary to intervene.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the image of a european commission and a european construction in the middle of a river in turmoil is more valid than ever. if it does not have the courage to go ahead with convincing proposals and if it does not have the resignation to go backwards, and thus to national policy choices and a nationalist vision, it is inevitably bound to be swept along and swept away. but the signals coming from our institutions are not clear in this respect. of course, we feel that the commission is engaged in a process of reform, but it is also true that a few weeks ago the proposals of commissioner barnier were greatly reduced by the college of commissioners, and we would like to be able to discuss in parliament as a commissioner and with what motives he had to observe the proposals, for example, on the rating agencies, that is to say on the creation of a european rating agency. why do i ask that? because at the moment the real debate is about economic and financial measures, but also about the nature of our democracy, and if we do not have the strength to explain to our european citizens what we are discussing and who is on which side and with whom, we will be swept away by another, much worse, trend, which is that of a growing egomanism, of a growing scepticism, which will distance itself from the whole european project.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago president van rompuy said that in order to find a solution to save the economic and financial situation of the euro area and of europe, the states must renounce their sovereignty. this could be a great sacrifice for those who every day, or at least during the celebrations - our country for the 150th anniversary of the unity of italy - crowds and enjoys the symbols of national unity and flags. for us who represent padania it may be a minor sacrifice, but i ask president van rompuy and the other members of the european elite in return for what we should give up national sovereignty. in exchange for a bluff, why is that, for example, that is promised to our country, at least according to the rumors in the corridor a support from four hundred to six hundred billion where are we going to get it? certainly not from the international monetary fund. as regards the ecb's intervention, there is the seemingly insurmountable obstacle of the treaties, and so we ask ourselves: are these real questions or is it a bluff? are we kidding around? what are we talking about? i believe that the present situation in our country, with government bonds at 8% three years, does not give much hope at least in the short and medium term. it's a real piece of work. and i would also like to know more about the plan b that is being rumored to be being prepared by several states. there is even talk in germany of preparing to colour the euro with an indelible inscription that should guarantee the german character of that euro. we'd like to hear more from mr. monti's mysterious advisors. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card, rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i reply to the honourable member that sovereignty is the cultural and therefore political identity of the member states. it is inalienable from the point of view of, say, membership, and the union which the free countries have achieved through the construction of europe can never forget and asphalt and annul the principle of national sovereignty, which must remain valid unless it is accepted, and we will never accept, a principle: the principle of building a superstate which abolishes the identity and therefore also the rights and freedoms of individual states and regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is getting worse and it is time to act with the timeliness and efficiency that have been lacking so far. it would be useless and counterproductive to rely on the thaumaturgical effect of the announcement of a reform of the treaties. the adventurous path of an intergovernmental treaty would have devastating consequences for the markets. the reform of the treaties is too long; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the truth is that the problem facing the eu today is a political problem and not an institutional one. the current treaty can strengthen economic convergence, fiscal discipline, safeguard the stability of the euro area and boost growth. the two new proposals for regulations submitted by the commission demonstrate this, and with that legal basis, article 136, it is possible to go even further, also with regard to the role of the court of justice of the european union. the flexibility clause would allow the eurozone to increase its powers and article 122 (2) is an appropriate basis for that extraordinary eurobond debt redemption fund devised by the german council of economic experts. in short, there is a feeling that the reform of the treaties is being sought in order to avoid codecision, to have less europe and no more. there is no excuse for this, we must act now and lay the foundations for the full implementation, with the consent of the citizens, of a fiscal union based on stability, growth, solidarity and democracy, which is the basis for that reform of the treaties, which is too important an objective to be compromised by a clumsy and untimely reform, which would be legally useless, economically insignificant and politically harmful today.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, we are indeed entering a critical period of ten days to complete a comprehensive and effective response to the crisis by the european union. european citizens are calling for decisive action from leaders in order to protect sustainable growth and employment and in order to counter the contagion that is currently going on in the financial markets, which is threatening our jobs and growth. this means that countries under market pressure need to continue to put their fiscal house in order and reform their economies to generate growth and jobs. this work is going on, not only in the ‘programme countries’, but more recently, for instance in belgium and italy with new governments, new budgets and/or other new perspectives. in parallel we must reinforce our economic governance and strengthen massively our financial firewalls to counter the speculation in the markets. to be credible and effective these efforts must be based on the community method. that is the commission’s position on how to tackle the crisis. we need to work on all relevant fronts. yes, the decisions of the eurozone summit of october need to be fully implemented. that is a necessary, even if not sufficient, condition of overcoming the crisis. as to the treaty-change debate, let us be clear on that. a treaty change cannot offer an immediate contribution to the solution of the current crisis. but it is true that reinforcing fiscal prudence and economic surveillance, in the euro area in particular, may help to prevent any future fiscal crisis. thus it matters to the confidence in the construct of the euro, which has been questioned in recent weeks. in the meantime, the commission has taken the initiative and we have proposed new legislation that will strengthen economic governance significantly. we have done that within the scope of the current treaty. the two regulations which i introduced today, based on article 136, will ensure closer monitoring of fiscal and economic policies. they add another building block onto the economic and fiscal union and especially onto tighter fiscal surveillance based on the ‘six-pack’ legislation which you have recently approved. i sensed yesterday in the euro group and today in the ecofin meeting of finance ministers that there is strong support for these proposals – and even going beyond these proposals – among the ministers. i trust that is also the case here in the european parliament. concerning our financial firewalls, the euro group yesterday took important decisions on the leveraging of the efsf and thus reinforcing the financial firewalls. these have already been welcomed by several market participants, including the institute of international finance. in the very short term – or rather immediate term – this work must continue and we must consider further means to reinforce this leveraging effect, for instance through increasing resources available from the imf for the european union. in the longer – or rather already medium term – the green paper on stability bonds lays out credible options which to a different extent, depending on the option considered, could bring us closer to a fiscal union, could protect us better against speculative attacks, and would also reassure markets to have confidence in the credibility of the euro. let me underline again – as i said in the committee on economic and monetary affairs a few days ago and i have said several times before other compositions of the parliament – the necessary condition for considering any serious move towards eurobonds or stability bonds is a further and very substantial reinforcement of economic governance to ensure fiscal discipline and economic stability, in fact to build a real fiscal union or an ever-closer economic union. the european council will at this critical juncture need to take bold and determined action to reverse the current negative dynamics in the financial markets. it calls for immediate decisions both to ensure fiscal consolidation and growth-boosting reforms in the member states. it calls for further reinforcement of our financial firewalls and for a road map on how to further reinforce economic governance and in parallel to put in place new stability instruments and thus to create a true economic union. our citizens expect us to do whatever is needed in order to protect jobs and growth and we can best do it by deeper economic integration in europe.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, vice-president of the commission, honourable members, i want to start where commissioner rehn ended. i think we will best use the 10 days left before the european council to prepare it in such a way that we can find the right responses and that it will be a set of decisions that will bring confidence and will allow us to set the course for long-term solutions for the eurozone. now i also want to reiterate what commissioner rehn stressed: that we believe very strongly that solutions must be found in full unity in the circle of twenty-seven; they must be found in a very ambitious way, with open minds and, when i say this, i also think that the european council will have to balance a number of positions and interests to deliver a solution – a package deal – which will mean that delegations will also have to shift. a number of members of parliament have today referred to their national discussions on the eurobonds, on various consolidating measures, on the role of the commission in the surveillance of national budgets. i think we all have to realise that the stakes are so high that everybody will have to show flexibility and i think this is very much the appeal that the commission, the president of the european council and the presidency share and try to promote. i also want to say that in fact i find in this debate today a very large degree of consensus on what needs to be done. i think this is exactly what unites us: the determination to provide more solid economic governance, to provide more stability and at the same time to provide more solidarity. i think that this is the message that we all share: solidity, solidarity, stability, three ‘s’s. my last word is on the mff because i did not mention the mff in my introductory remarks. as you know, the presidency has started those difficult negotiations; i would just like to inform the house that we have advanced them and we have prepared the presidency report, which will be presented and discussed at the general affairs council but also presented to the european council for information. we do not believe this is the moment for the european council to discuss the mff; nevertheless the presidency is finishing a certain very important stage of those negotiations and, as we pass the baton to the danish presidency, wishing them much good luck with this file, i hope that we will also be able to set out some guidelines concerning the timetable of the work on the mff for next year. i think that the objective, shared also with parliament, should be to agree on the mff by the end of 2012.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. solidarity between the countries of the union must be accompanied by a sense of responsibility and compliance with the rules, which the states cannot and must not violate. but solidarity cannot and must not be one-sided, if you are part of a union, whose ideals and values are shared, which is committed to growth and development and which supports each other even in times of difficulty. i ask myself and i ask you, then, how can fiscal and budgetary discipline, institutional control, be linked to growth and development? in this context, we can and must put the eurobond system into effect. there can be no revival of the european economy if, at the same time, the strength of the euro is not used. eurobonds serve to link budgetary discipline and the development of the continent, they are the starting point of that interdependence which now characterizes european coexistence, while remaining a rigid fiscal discipline. we have a european union with an uncertain operational capacity and a glaring democratic deficit, and not the strength of a structure in which the responsibilities of the states are clearly identified, like those of a federal entity. we must move from the european union to the united states of europe.
the agenda for the joint debate includes the recommendation by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft decision of the council of the european union on the admission of the republic of croatia to the european union [14409/2011 - 2011/0805 (nle)) (a7-0390/2011) and the report by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on croatia's application for accession to the european union [2011/2191 (ini)) (a7-0389/2011).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this excellent report can make a very important contribution to the current debate on economic governance and possible reform of the treaties, because it very effectively highlights the very close and inescapable link between the effectiveness of economic governance and the degree of its democratic legitimacy, thus also highlighting, i would say, the very absurdity of the concept of limited reform of the treaties. because if, on the one hand, the objectives which this limited reform seems to pursue could easily be achieved without reform, as we have already argued, but by applying the treaty, if instead we turn the guidelines and recommendations based on articles 121 (2) and 148 (4) into legally valid decisions, we go beyond the limits of a limited reform and move towards a true and full federal fiscal union which cannot be achieved without full and complete democratic legitimacy and therefore without a full co-decision role for the european parliament. in short, this reform is useless if it is limited, and if it confers new, full powers on economic policy, it cannot be limited. the approach must therefore be reversed, parliament must be involved immediately in the definition of the guidelines and recommendations as proposed in the report, as a condition for making these guidelines binding. the berès report convincingly proposes that we should reverse the approach, follow the community method and seek greater democratic legitimacy.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on the european union's response to hiv infection, which we have actively participated in and signed, draws attention to the very high number of infections affecting european citizens every year. particular attention is paid to the fact that as many as 30% of hiv-positive patients are also infected with hepatitis c. the european union must implement policies to inform the public of the risks of contracting a disease which, in addition to being debilitating, often causes the death of the patient. unfortunately, because of an amendment which was adopted by a majority in the committee, the original text was amended with a sentence on abortion which we do not agree with, as it is not in the measure. we have specifically asked for a separate vote on the amendment to the abortion amendment to delete it, hoping that the original text we agreed to will be respected. otherwise, although we consider this measure important for the citizens of europe and especially for young people, we will not be able to vote in favour, but we will have to abstain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european central bank has played its role during the crisis as discreetly as possible, managing to keep inflation low and intervening by buying bonds to limit the financial meltdown. i do not agree with those who want to change the ecb's formula or give it new powers: the ecb can never be the fed because europe is different from the united states. the central bank must not allow itself to intervene in detail in the future with its public letters. it is right that it should indicate the objectives to be achieved, but the methods of intervention should be left to the member states. the problem of public securities has recently come to the fore. it is unacceptable that a country in difficulty, which is also burdened by the constraints of the euro, should be forced to pay very high interest rates compared with other european countries. we must find a solution through european bonds to prevent a country in crisis from suffering more than the damage, the mockery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, allow me to welcome you to this chamber as the new president of the european central bank on behalf of the italian delegation of the european people's party. we are making budgetary rules and stricter fiscal discipline, but at the moment we need immediate answers and i have the impression that the debate and the timing on eurobonds requires time, and we do not have time. we need measures to promote growth and to combat stagnation. during the current crisis, the ecb has played an important role by buying the bonds of the states that are the subject of speculation, keeping the cost of money and inflation low. perhaps more than other european institutions, it has acted quickly and effectively, but the crisis has become the crisis of our common currency, the euro, which does not have the support that every currency must have. the ecb lacks the operationality and authority of a true central bank. it is not very sensible to think that the ecb can finance the member states indirectly, that is to say through the international monetary fund, and thus play a leading role in combating the debt crisis by circumventing the constraints imposed by the statute, but i wonder whether this is really the case. this shows even more clearly the need to move from the ecb to a genuine european central bank which is a guaranteeing, supervising and also issuing body. the ecb must become a lender of last resort, like the us federal reserve, a guarantor of the currency, as is the case with the dollar and the pound sterling. this would also help, mr president, to achieve the europe of solidarity and of the states which our founding fathers, from adenauer to spinelli and de gasperi, wanted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the central bank, as you will have gathered from many of the speeches by our colleagues today, paradoxically, although no one is asking the european central bank to shy away from its tasks, it is being asked to contribute a vision. and the european central bank can make this contribution of vision, of course, by going deep into its own nature and thus playing its role to the end, but also by opening up to a dialogue with this institution, because it is clear that by the time it judges the hypotheses of mr tremosa i balcells to be relevant and in line with a design which we intend to develop positively, we will have given politics the opportunity to get out of the way. that seems to me to be the basic problem: we are in the middle of a ford, and indecision can be fatal, and if the ford is not crossed, there is a conflict at the end of this road, a conflict with unforeseeable consequences. we therefore ask you to be open to the relationship with parliament and to have confidence in this institution. today we are not few, but we are certainly determined to help europe achieve its project.
european central bank. − mr president, thanks to all the honourable members of the european parliament for their statements and their contributions. let me say at the very beginning that i look forward to sharing views and to exchanging opportunities to look together at the present situation and to reflect together at this very difficult contingency. i think many of your statements really come under one heading: how do we reconstruct confidence in the euro in the euro area? this process will have three pillars: the first one is what i called the setting of an anchor in the long term. this redesign of the fiscal rules, of the fiscal compact – meaning by this word an agreement of new fiscal rules – is necessary to create trust for all countries who are members of the euro area. this design has not been completed. i think the next few days will be very important in telling us whether we will make any progress on this path. this is very important because, as i said, this gives the long-term trust which is necessary for the other two pillars. by the way, for the second pillar, which is the design of a financing mechanism within the euro area, we have the efsf. it is a design in which we have to put our confidence that it will work, but some steps are still needed, as we all know. the third pillar is the national economic policy response and frankly we are seeing much improvement on that front. as i said before, i do believe that countries are nowadays on track. we see a good future but we have to be aware that in the end what matters is the delivery of the proposed reforms. reforms – i do not want to be misunderstood – do not have to be focused only on the budget and budgetary issues; they also have to be structural reforms, reforms that enhance competitiveness and growth. so these are the three pillars upon which confidence can be reconstructed. i have been asked: what is the role of the ecb in all this? some of you said the ecb should do more; some of you said the ecb should do less. let me start by saying the ecb can act within the treaty so the ecb should not be asked to do things that are not within the treaty. the ecb is the lender of last resort for solvent banks. the ecb has created an enormous amount of liquidity and we see that this liquidity is now being redeposited with the ecb deposit facility, which means that it is not so much the amount of liquidity that matters, but it is the fact that this liquidity is not actually circulating through the banking channel, through the financial system, through the credit channel. in our view, the most important thing now for the ecb is to repair the credit channel in a way that enables this liquidity to actually finance the real economy – especially the small and medium-sized enterprises which are now in difficult conditions because they are the ones who mostly need the banks’ credit. the large corporations are on average, generally speaking, able to access capital markets on their own, so they are less dependent on the banks. that is why we have to make sure that a credit channel will start to work again. we have observed serious credit tightening in the most recent period which, combined with a weakening of the business cycle, does not bode at all well for the months to come. i think this is one of the first things. also, some of you mentioned the smp, the securities market programme, should be more active, less active. let me say – and i did say this a moment ago – that the rationale for having the smp active is that you want to make sure that you repair the monetary policy transmission channels. it is not to create liquidity, it is not to subsidise governments; it is to repair the monetary policy transmission channels. that was the rationale with which it started and that is still the rationale with which we employ it. by itself it is a non-standard measure and therefore by itself it is going to be temporary, it is going to be limited. let me be clear about what i mean by limited. it is not eternal and it is not infinite. we have to understand that the ecb can act within the treaty. it would be a mistake to have the ecb acting outside the treaty; it would not be legal and it would also be a mistake because it would, especially in some parts of europe, undermine the credibility of the ecb, which nowadays is the strongest signature in the euro area. i take the words on communication with great pleasure. it is true always, but especially in this situation of extreme difficulty, that it does not really make any sense to have a cacophony of voices anticipating monetary policy decisions, reflecting individual views and not the collegial decision-making process. i could not agree more. i will certainly take this message to the rest of the governing council, but, as i said, these are opportunities and occasions that are cherished very much and i will continue cherishing them. i am very much looking forward to my next meeting with the european parliament, which is going to be in a few days with the committee on economic and monetary affairs. (applause)
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, as we can see, the previous debate had an influence on the conclusion of the negotiations on the 2012 budget. as we welcome the president of the council - and i welcome the presence of commissioner lewandowski - i would like to welcome the agreement reached in conciliation on the draft budget for 2012. this agreement enables us to complete the budgetary procedure within the time limits laid down in the treaty and its implementing texts. i would like to thank the commission and congratulate the young polish presidency which has achieved unanimity in the council. this agreement covered both the 2012 budget and amending budget no 6 for 2011. i also congratulate our rapporteurs, who will tell us what the important strengths are for the european parliament in this budget. in these times of crisis, which we have already discussed at length, we have managed to combine two seemingly contradictory but equally necessary objectives: on the one hand, to reduce operating expenditure and, on the other, to preserve future expenditure, which is essential to support economic activity today and to ensure competitiveness tomorrow. but at the same time, two lessons must be drawn from this result. first lesson: we cannot continue to negotiate backwards, starting with payment appropriations, when political choices are translated into commitment appropriations. parliament wants the three institutions to work together in the coming months, in cold blood, to get a precise breakdown of the use of appropriations, of the exact needs, line by line. so that the examination of the 2013 budget is informed by complete information and does not lead to a new decision on freezing, uniform grooming for the third consecutive year. second lesson: it has been proved that we can no longer finance the european budget by national contributions. as from next monday, we will begin negotiations between parliament and the council, together with the commission, on the new own resources needed to finance the european budget by reducing national contributions. for parliament - i have said it and i say it again solemnly here - there will be no agreement on the next financial framework without a political agreement on the return to financing from own resources. i hear, here and there, great voices calling for budgetary federalism. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 november parliament and the council reached a common position on the budget three days ahead of the deadline for conciliation. it is a good sign that at a time of great uncertainty and difficulty the european institutions are looking to the future first. it's also a choice of responsibility. from the outset, parliament has placed strategy 2020, the grand anti-crisis strategy for a future of growth and prosperity, at the heart of the budget. it is not easy for anyone to draw up a budget today, nor is it easy for europe, but parliament has made a choice which has been fully recognised during the conciliation. we have more resources for growth, for research, for employment, for lifelong learning, for immigration policies, for europe's international policies. but the settlement is not a smooth one. the payments are not going well, and this is not new. unfortunately, there is a clear and recurring conflict on the issue of payments between parliament and the commission on the one hand, and the council on the other. a contradiction which must be resolved, which must be overcome, because it is obviously a situation which we cannot endure any longer. but the conciliation is unfortunately not the ideal place to open discussions, to open conciliations, because - and the experience of the past year has clearly taught us this - to open large discussions in the narrow and rigorous terms of the conciliation is only likely to jeopardise the next budget. the commission's unimpeachable forecasts of its expenditure needs - and i want to stress this - the commission's very authoritative, very reliable forecasts, which parliament has supported, are thus defeated. i hope this will work out. i think that until the european budget has its own resources we will not find a lasting solution to this problem, that is clear. but what we can do, as parliament, is, in the commitment we have made and attached to the budget, to intervene promptly if the need for payments should increase during the year. what we can and must do is to make every effort to ensure that this commitment is honoured and, above all, we must all work to ensure that this commitment does not become a victim, in terms of form and timing, of the next budgetary reconciliation, because what we must do, and this is the choice we have made with iter, which we have made this year on the subject of payments, is to avoid opening up conciliations within the conciliation. i would also like to thank all the members who have been passionately involved in this budget, the polish presidency, which has played an important driving role, and especially the commission, commissioner lewandowski, who has maintained a very fine balance throughout the delicate conciliation process. and then the policy advisors in our groups, and finally our assistants who have been participating in this work until incredible hours of the night.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? for the first time, we have had to negotiate a european budget in the midst of the severe financial crisis we are currently experiencing. and for the first time, we have succeeded in bringing this process to a positive conclusion in less time than the lisbon treaty. this is a great success for the european union and all the institutions involved. i would therefore like to thank the whole european parliament very warmly, and in particular mr lamassoure, the rapporteur, mrs balzani, mr frenandes, commissioner lewandowski and the whole team, for the constructive and responsible approach they have taken this year to this debate, to tackle the most important issues facing the european union in the coming year. i would like to emphasise that during the whole process of negotiating the 2012 budget, there were no serious disputes between us as to the priorities of the european union that should be financed in the future. on the contrary, there was a very precise and professional discussion on what measures we need to implement the priorities and how these priorities should be aligned so that european society feels the union's policies in the most favourable way and that these policies are directed primarily to where they are most expected at the moment. i would also point out that, in response to the spirit of reconciliation which prevailed in our discussions, the council adopted all the priorities put forward by parliament, particularly as regards the commitment appropriations. i would also like to thank the european parliament for its very good and understanding attitude and full understanding of the priorities announced by the council, especially as regards the payment appropriations. parliament has shown its full openness to the needs, to the budgetary situation in the member states, to the crisis that currently exists, and has analysed with understanding the council's demands in this respect. i am also pleased to inform you today that the 2012 budget was adopted unanimously yesterday at the ecofin council meeting and letter no 6 on the 2011 budget amendments was adopted by a large majority, so that the entire 2012 budget procedure has been successfully concluded as far as the council is concerned.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome, in the name of the commission, the agreement on the 2012 budget. this timely agreement is a positive and reassuring signal, because this is about continuity and stability at this very unstable time in europe, with so many question marks. i would also say openly that the forecasts and priorities on the part of parliament are very responsive to the needs of europe today. it is about competitiveness, it is about migration, and it is about additional neighbourhood policy needs, including some frontloading for palestine also. this timely agreement reached on the 2012 budget will make for timely implementation of that budget. this is really very important. what is also important is that the increase in operational expenditure is well balanced by self-restraint in administration. it has rightly been mentioned already that this is less than 6% of the budget, but the institutions are nonetheless making every effort to restrain administrative expenditure in the european union. this time it is lower than in the draft budget, although we have to plan to welcome croatia also into our family of 27 – increasing to 28 – nations. i have to congratulate ms balzani for her part of the report on the choice of priorities, and mr fernandes on his part of the report on this self-restraint action on administration. in order to cover needs, we need to use the flexibility instrument that was agreed between parliament and the council. this timely agreement could not have happened without the constructive role of the polish presidency, and personally of minister dominik, so my thanks to him, because this has also given a positive signal to the beneficiaries of the european budget. as has already expressed on so many occasions, the level of payments might not be enough. i have to say this once more. i have to repeat that, in contrast to national annual budgets, the european budget is about investment. i know what the overall share of investment is in the budget for 2012 of the country i know best, which has been reduced to below 5% i think. more than 50 or 60% of the european budget should be classified as clearly being investment expenditure, covering the deficit of investment in the european union with a multiplier effect on jobs and growth. if we have less for 2012 in real terms than for 2011 there will be some problems for the future as we are today also running short of payments, as is reflected in amending budget no 6. we have to reflect on the procedure of annual budgeting at the end of a financial perspective in terms of an increase in payments. that is normal and is no surprise. in the previous discussion, your rapporteur in parliament said to president draghi ‘in the central bank we trust’. i personally trust in the joint declaration and in its credibility if there is a need for additional payments for 2012. i trust also that we have delivered all the necessary information to release the reserves. once more, congratulations and thanks to everyone involved, including alain lamassoure, for reaching a timely agreement for 2012.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, may i, on behalf of the european people's party, thank the rapporteurs, mr balzani and mr fernandes, as well as commissioner lewandowski and mr dominik, president-in-office of the council, and all my colleagues for the excellent work they have done and the spirit of cooperation they have shown. i believe that the agreement reached on friday night, 18 november, after almost 16 hours of negotiations, was a good result, especially in view of the serious economic crisis and the difficulties facing national budgets. on the commitment side, i welcome the decision to use the flexibility instrument to the extent of 200 million for headings 1 and 4, as parliament had requested, to boost the competitiveness of the productive system, to finance the priority policies which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy and to tackle the difficult challenges of the neighbourhood policy. it is clear that the other policies have met the priorities set by parliament in terms of commitments. it is true, however, that as regards payment appropriations, as many colleagues have pointed out in previous speeches and as the rapporteurs themselves have pointed out, the agreement cannot be said to be as satisfactory, especially as regards the widening of the gap between commitments and payments, which will increase the liabilities to be settled, and the difficulties which the commission may encounter in financing certain programmes which are due to expire. i believe, however, that today's vote in this parliament, as the council did yesterday, will be to pass an austere and responsible budget which takes full account of the crisis, but which at the same time seeks to revive investment and the economy in order to focus on the objective of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, president of the council, i should like to begin by congratulating the colleagues who took part in the negotiations with the council for the complex work they have had to do to take account of the period of austerity and the difficulties of the budgets of the member states, which are already under severe strain. the result of the negotiations was positive in terms of the priorities set by the epp group. i am referring in particular to heading 1a, a key heading for the development and growth of european enterprises and the implementation of human capital, where the agreement on the seventh framework programme for the lifelong learning programme and erasmus mundus has been maintained. i cannot accept, however, that for the second year in a row the council has been imposing itself in an unwavering manner with horizontal cuts on all budget lines. an increase in payment appropriations of 1.86% compared with 2011 runs counter to the economic recovery approach proposed by the commission and strongly supported by this parliament. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. i conclude, mr president: this result risks undermining the citizens' confidence in the possibility of a united european exit from this period of serious economic and social difficulties and in an acceptable time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the compromise reached in the conciliation phase is quite satisfactory: the funds to support small and mediumsized enterprises have been increased and the appropriation for frontex, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, has also been increased, and rightly so. in a period of objective difficulty, we could not have asked for more, and i would have preferred even more cuts on certain items of expenditure which i do not consider essential, such as the increase in funds for cooperation with asia and latin america. i do not think that the commission has any right to interfere in the negotiations on the future of the community. i do not believe that the european union should legitimise a people who are illegally occupying territory that does not belong to them. in any case, there has been no particularly onerous burden on the member states, already badly affected by the crisis, and this was certainly the most important thing to be achieved.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to thank all those who have worked on this text, starting with the working party which brought together the top leaders of all the parties in this parliament, but also my committee, which has done a good job in this respect. i think that a very large consensus is needed to show that this parliament is a transparent parliament, that it is only concerned with the common good and that each of us is personally fulfilling the commitment, already made at the time of the elections, to serve only the common good and european integration. i therefore imagine that there must be a very broad consensus and i would therefore ask mr gargani to withdraw his oral amendments which, although very well worded, would nevertheless prevent such a broad consensus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what the rapporteur, mr casini, has said, but i had tabled a number of amendments at the committee meeting, with the very modest but, i believe, very timely intention of improving the text. these amendments were not accepted because there was a discussion, even at a high level, with you present, and therefore there was already substantially an agreement. i have two oral amendments, one of which i think is very important because, as the article says, i ask all members to listen for a moment because i think there is a problem... two minutes. do i have to talk later? can i continue? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to both this and the following amendments, because i have tabled two oral amendments. i think that this is very timely, organic, in the overall text because because the article states in the text, in the introduction, the duties of the members, the article is very confusing and instead states what you cannot do, and not what the member must do according to the things that casini said, our transparency and our representation of a people, which we must do with fairness and in a very scrupulous way. i think he's very confused. the other amendment, mr president, i would stress even more. since we expect that there will be no possibility of gifts, gifts to members for a maximum of one hundred and fifty euros, with a sum that is much less, my amendment, ladies and gentlemen, was much more restrictive, because i believe that the member should not have any gifts, any attention except the smallest, the negligible one. i believe the proof of this is in a letter that all members have received. this letter states, offers the mp 100 euros if he participates in a poll. i believe this is an insult to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the activation of the stability instrument once again highlights the crucial need for ever greater flexibility in the budget of the european union. at the same time, despite the modest increase in the commitment appropriations of certain budget lines and the numerous reductions in the appropriations of other budget lines, the ceilings for subheading 1a and heading 4 do not suffice to finance certain priorities set by parliament and the council. in the framework of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2012, the flexibility instrument is therefore used to provide the sum of eur 30,75 million in commitment appropriations in subheading 1a and eur 208,67 million in commitment appropriations in heading 4. the activation of the flexibility instrument for the financing of the eu 2020 strategy will therefore commit a total amount of eur 239,42 million. we are satisfied with these figures and that is why we have voted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 15 hours of constructive negotiations, the 2012 budget is closed with a level of payment appropriations approved of eur 129.08 billion, corresponding to the amount adopted by the council in its position of last july. the commitment appropriations amount to eur 147.23 billion, almost eur 1 billion more than the council's position. during the negotiations, when it became clear that there would be no room for manoeuvre on payment appropriations, given that the delegations of the member states had explained the difficulties in paying national budgets, the european parliament's approach was based on the level of commitments, with particular reference to competitiveness and external relations. that is why i support this 2012 budget which, given the period of economic and financial difficulties, has nevertheless found a broad solution in the competitiveness chapter, for example by looking at innovation and investments useful for a future european recovery. i would like to conclude by recalling that for the first time since the new procedure was introduced under the lisbon treaty, an agreement was reached within the conciliation deadline.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report which the ecb has presented to us today contains some very interesting data: in 2010 the ecb recorded a gross profit of eur 1 334 million; the decrease compared to the previous year is due, on the one hand, to the reduction in net interest income due to lower interest rates on both the main refinancing operations of the eurosystem and on official reserves denominated in us dollars and, on the other hand, to the fact that no gold sales were made in 2010. the governing council decided to transfer an amount of eur 1 163 million to the reserve fund by 31 december 2010, thus reaching its current maximum allowable limit. the ecb thus closed the year with a net profit of eur 171 million, which the governing council decided to distribute in full to the national central banks of the euro area countries. the reserve fund is intended to cover exchange rate, interest rate, credit and gold price risks, and its size and the need to maintain it are reviewed annually. the ecb's ordinary income consists of income generated by the investment of its official reserves and the portfolio held against its own funds, as well as from the interest accruing on the 8% share of the total value of euro banknotes in circulation allocated to the ecb and from the net interest accruing on the portfolios created for monetary policy purposes under the covered bond purchase programme and the securities market programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is ready to accept the compromise package, as the remaining duration of the current instruments is short, but because of the council's rigidity it has not been possible to improve the text of the instrument further, particularly as regards the role of parliament in strategic decisions for which parity between the co-legislators is essential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mid-term review provided for in the regulations establishing the financial instruments has had the effect of bringing to light a substantial difference of opinion between the european parliament, the commission and the council on the procedures for approving multiannual cooperation programmes with developing countries. the distance between the two sides of the house made it necessary to convene a conciliation committee with a trilogue, which led to the formulation of the four compromise proposals. in the case of the instrument with industrialised countries, the amendment was designed to extend the geographical scope of ici programmes to emerging countries which are still beneficiaries of the traditional cooperation instrument. the most delicate aspect of the negotiations concerned parliament's request to include in the text of the regulations the specific financial allocations for each country or region, in monetary or percentage terms. for the council and the commission, these allocations can only be indicative and should not affect the allocation of funds by region and country by the council and the commission in accordance with the procedures in force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text we voted on establishes an instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights, which contributes to the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and to the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. to ensure the effectiveness and consistency of aid operations, the commission will ensure close coordination between its activities and those of the member states. assistance under this instrument is aimed at improving respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the countries and regions where they are most at risk. in this respect, the european parliament has always called for zero tolerance for violations of fundamental rights of any kind and the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has made the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, transforming basic values into concrete rights. today's vote is a strong and concrete example of a legal basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overriding objective of european union cooperation is the eradication of poverty in partner countries and regions in the context of sustainable development, including the pursuit of the millennium development goals, and the promotion of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and the rule of law. its action plan for the development cooperation financing instrument includes support for acp countries which are party to the sugar protocol, geographical assistance programmes for south africa and forty-seven countries in latin america, asia and the middle east, and thematic programmes. in the multilateral field, the millennium declaration is the main reference point and its aim remains the halving of absolute poverty, that is, of those people living on less than a dollar a day by 2015. the european framework is an essential reference for development cooperation in each member state. one third of italy's official development aid is managed by the european commission in brussels, hence a strong vote in favour of this measure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to codify the various acts applicable to road statistics and to lay down new conditions for the delegation of power to the commission by the legislator: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also necessary to ensure that the exercise of the delegated powers does not result in significant additional financial burdens for the respondents. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft regulation on the statistics of tourism. the proposed amendments can provide a good basis for further negotiations with the council and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years after the declaration of independence and almost eight years after croatia submitted its application for membership of the european union, croatia has achieved a historic milestone in its integration process into the union, and we saw this today in the enthusiasm with which this house greeted the representatives of the croatian parliament as they successfully concluded the accession negotiations. the accession negotiations with croatia are thus coming to an end, bringing to an end almost six years of commitment and many years of preparation, which have significantly changed the socio-political, economic and cultural landscape of that country. the positive outcome of this process will strengthen support for eu membership among croatian citizens and encourage citizens to participate in the eu referendum and to support the accession treaty. it is important that croatia continues its efforts to resolve outstanding bilateral issues with some countries such as serbia, in particular with regard to border demarcation, missing persons, property restitution and refugees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is no longer just a threat but a fact capable of changing social and political structures and therefore calls for strong and ambitious responses. if the success of the 2020 strategy depends on the commitment of the european union as a whole, member states must regard economic and fiscal policies as a matter of common concern. some countries may go faster on their own, but together we will go further. more coordination is therefore needed in the adoption and implementation of budgetary measures and in the effective fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. in this sense, the promotion of international trade links and the improvement of the internal market are key elements for strengthening competitiveness and economic growth. however, the europe 2020 strategy needs to have a stronger territorial and social dimension. only by involving local institutions directly in the planning and implementation of programmes can a better awareness of the objectives to be achieved be ensured.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the effects of the economic crisis is the increase in inequalities, macro-financial imbalances and disparities in terms of competitiveness. these issues have highlighted the need for the union to address macroeconomic imbalances on the basis of a symmetric approach addressing both excessive deficits and excessive surpluses, ensuring closer coordination of economic and fiscal policies and improved budgetary surveillance. the experience gained since the introduction of the euro and the mistakes made during the first ten years of the functioning of economic and monetary union have highlighted the need for more effective economic governance of the union, which should be based on greater national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and a stronger framework for the surveillance of national economic policies at union level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this first single market forum brought together citizens, businessmen, the social partners and policy-makers at all levels to discuss the state of the single market. much attention was paid to the commission's document containing the 20 obstacles most frequently encountered by citizens and businesses, which thus confirm the gap between expectations and the reality of the single market, twenty years after its birth. special thematic seminars were devoted to the most sensitive areas; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. in conclusion, a meeting that has helped to revive the mood and to discuss the problems that still hinder one of the main objectives of the union, which has already brought countless benefits for consumers, but also for 21 million businesses in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the text of this motion for a resolution, which is part of the achievement of one of the millennium development goals to be achieved by 2015. as the statistics and a paragraph in the report we voted on show, the greatest number of infections are among young people and women. a united nations study found that the hiv information campaign was especially popular in the 1980's, but interest in the disease has been waning, as if the danger no longer existed. the result is that young people today are less informed and less aware of the risks of infection. few people know that a person living with hiv does not necessarily have aids, or that hiv is transmitted while aids is not, or that there is no aids test but only the hiv test. i am therefore pleased that the report is taking on the task of bringing to the fore a subject on which there is still much to be discussed and informed in an attempt to find a global answer to the problem through better and more informed knowledge.
in writing. − today we voted to mobilise the flexibility fund for the eu 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy. the eu 2020 strategy is one of the tools to address the current difficult times of economic crisis and lack of confidence that we are experiencing in europe both at the level of the institutions and among the citizens. the mobilisation of the fund is necessary to enable these two eu instruments to pursue the european policy for growth and the economic, social and political stability of the union. the conciliation committee convened for the 2012 budget approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for eur 200 million over the ceilings of subheading 1a and heading 4 to support the neighbourhood policy and the europe 2020 strategy, in line with this decision i am pleased with the broad consensus of the whole house towards mobilising the fund.
in writing. − today's vote is closely linked to the adoption of the 2012 eu general budget. since, during the work leading up to the establishment of a common position, the european parliament, with the agreement of the council, considered it essential to have recourse to additional expenditure for 2012, in order to boost the economy in strategic sectors for growth and to help europe emerge from the crisis, it was decided, on a proposal from the commission, to activate the flexibility instrument. as is known, the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 authorises the use of the flexibility instrument to finance expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. for these reasons, today's vote allowed the 2012 budget to be supplemented by eur 30.75 million for the europe 2020 strategy (under subheading 1a) and eur 208.67 million for the european neighbourhood instrument (under heading 4), in addition to the ceilings for subheading 1a and heading 4.
in writing. - my vote is in favour of the böge report. the need for the stability instrument to be activated for the financing of the eu 2020 strategy is more urgent than ever. i believe that this is an important step towards the objective of increasing the flexibility of the european budget.
in writing. − the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the eu 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy is very welcome, as i believe it is essential to encourage funding and cohesion in our europe, so that links can be ever stronger and initiatives can lead to ever more concrete objectives. the 2020 strategy, in a time of crisis such as the present one, by focusing on research, growth and innovation, must be the goal towards which the whole union must strive. but in doing so it is vital to provide the financial instruments necessary for its full achievement.
in writing. - i congratulate mr balzani and mr fernandes on the work they have done both in the previous parliamentary committee and in the conciliation committee. i understand the council's reasons, but the situation in the economies of the member states required a response to austerity, and in that sense the compromise agreement we have reached is a satisfactory solution. i share the doubts of commissioner lewandowski, but i would remind him that the possibility of adopting an amending budget at a later date, if payments cannot be made, was rightly provided for in the joint statement of parliament and the council. finally, i am pleased that we have been able to keep the promises we made on the appropriations for immigration policy. the political situation in the maghreb is unpredictable, we must be prepared and have the right tools to deal with any emergency, and i hope that this subject can be discussed in this house.
in writing. the work done by the european parliament delegation at the conciliation table is to be appreciated and positively assessed. the financial conditions of the member states could not and did not allow for more to be achieved. yet it is precisely in these difficult times that the will and courage to make innovative and, in some ways, disruptive policy choices must emerge. the conservatism of some member states (germany first and foremost, but not only) is dangerously slowing down the introduction of instruments which, on the contrary, appear more urgent and difficult to replace. at the same time as the budget lines were being adopted with difficulty, the commission was launching consultations on eurobonds, which provoked negative reactions from some national governments. however, eurobonds are only part of the possible solution. in the 2012 budget, the clear widening of the gap between commitment and payment appropriations is a sign that the current system for supplying the community's resources is inefficient and insufficient and that, consequently, the time has come for a change in it, based on a real system of own resources deriving, in addition to the ftt and a new vat, also from a new form of taxation of energy sources.
in writing. as i said in the debate this morning, i am very pleased with today's vote. i take this opportunity to thank the two rapporteurs, mr balzani and mr fernandes, commissioner lewandowski, the council, in the person of mr dominik, and all my colleagues and collaborators for the valuable work they have done during this procedure. i think that the large majority vote today fully reflects the constructive spirit with which the three institutions have worked over the past months to get the european 2012 budget approved, a budget which, in my view, takes full account of the difficult period of crisis, but which, at the same time, seeks to revive investment and the economy in order to focus on the objective of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth in the european union.
in writing. - i am in favour of and support this budget agreement. parliament asked for a higher sum, but the member states were pushing hard for a smaller percentage. the compromise we have managed to reach, although not the best, is an important point, especially at a time of crisis such as the present one when we need to support growth. the sums which can be raised from the community budget can be a breath of fresh air and an important support for certain sectors which have suffered and are suffering from very critical situations during this crisis.
in writing. the 2012 budget procedure was voted on in plenary today. the final figures and priority spending areas of the community budget for 2012 have been approved. the european parliament's proposals focused on growth, innovation, employment, border control, migration management and support for democratic development in the arab world. these priorities were all accepted by the member states in the final agreement. all increases in payment appropriations will be limited as required by the member states. the commission, the council and parliament agreed that an assessment should be made during the next year to see whether the budget as adopted is realistic or whether adjustments will be necessary. the member states have signed a declaration to this effect. the total budget for next year will be eur 129.1 billion (an increase of 1.86%) for payments and eur 147.2 billion (+3.8%) for expenditure commitments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the 2012 budget outlined in this way focuses on growth, innovation, employment, border control, migration management and support for democratic development in the arab world. the new total budget for next year will be eur 129.1 billion, an increase of 1.86%, for payments and eur 147.2 billion (+3.8%) for expenditure commitments. in times of crisis, it has managed to reduce operating costs while maintaining growth and competitiveness: we must now proceed along the road already traced with conviction and with great collegiality of intent.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 2011 budget adjustment is due to the need to increase the budget needed for the union's payments. the first draft budget was based on avoiding shortfalls in payment appropriations and to compensate for this, the strategy of correcting and increasing the availability of european funds for the third half of 2011 is, i believe, indispensable. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − continued eu support to unrwa is an essential element of the eu strategy for the middle east peace process to alleviate the plight of the refugee population in lebanon and thus contribute to stability in the region. the eu and its member states are the largest donors to unrwa. together with humanitarian aid, support from the instrument for stability and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, the eu has provided more than €64 million in support of palestinian refugees in lebanon over the past four years. the eu's main objective in providing support to palestinian refugees is to contribute to the right solution of the refugee problem as part of a comprehensive solution to the final status issue. in this way, the european union ensures that the basic humanitarian and development needs of palestinian refugees are met. the eu provides most of this assistance through its partnership with the un relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east. the european union will continue to support unrwa in its efforts to alleviate the terrible living conditions of palestinian refugees in lebanon through a new programme with a total budget of € 12 million.
in writing. - the globalisation adjustment fund, which is needed to reintegrate workers into the labour market or to protect workers in precarious situations in the workplace, is an indispensable instrument for receiving the help from the european union that many local businesses need. the report i voted for specifically concerns three local portuguese companies producing cars and trailers and semi-trailers which, in the current economic crisis, have a problem of 726 units of excess and have requested aid from the fund in question.
in writing. − the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the fund was extended from 1 may: it is now possible to claim support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. portugal has requested assistance in respect of 726 redundancies, all of which were eligible for assistance from the fund, in three undertakings active in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the norte and centro regions. given that the request for assistance fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in the fund regulation, the institutions should make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent and complex work, for which i gave her my vote in favour. in the 2000-2006 programming period, states have introduced forms of aid, identified by council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999, through specific funds and through reimbursed aid provided through other instruments. regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not define whether the aid is actually reimbursable or non-reimbursable and contains rather restrictive forms of financial engineering. although the regulation does not appear to cover repayable aid, member states, mindful of the positive experience of the previous programming period, have continued to use forms of repayable aid. i agree with the spirit of the report which seeks to clarify the legality of an existing legal practice. legal certainty and clarity must be guaranteed with regard to reimbursable aid and financial engineering instruments and, in line with what the rapporteur says, i believe that further reporting obligations by member states should be limited. finally, i welcome the use of the structural funds to finance expenditure linked to an operation comprising contributions to support repayable aid.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not define whether the financial aid granted by member states to beneficiaries is reimbursable or non-reimbursable, and doubts arise as to the eligibility of certain types of support to be provided. this is an interesting fact if we consider that aid to member states has continued to take the form of non-repayable financial aid over time. in august 2011, the european commission presented a proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on repayable aid and financial engineering, clarifying the eligibility of sub-repayable aid and the definition of information requirements in the area of financial instruments. i agree with this report and i think it is a positive one, because i hope that the member states will continue to grant aid to various groups, while maintaining the type of aid that can be reimbursed, so that they can benefit from the structural funds, even more than once if necessary, throughout the programme period.
in writing. - the need to introduce a framework of legal certainty - which would supersede a common practice, i.e. the use of a financial instrument which, provided for in the previous general regulation and not even in 1083/2006, continued to play an important role in the management of the common funds - responds to the evidence of its functionality. it is no coincidence that the member states have continued to use them, although without definite indications. it was therefore certainly urgent to clarify and increase the degree of transparency of the procedures. however, support is expressed in particular for the reuse of the reimbursed contribution, managed through a separate account and allocated to the same purposes: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the community's external action. on the whole, both the granting of reimbursable contributions and the establishment of a special credit line to which the individual beneficiary can draw seem to be moving in the direction of an expansion of the range of supply possibilities, all the more necessary at a time of serious financial difficulty in many member states. that is why we can only support the adoption of this measure.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that reimbursable aid and financial engineering instruments must be implemented with the utmost legal certainty. i also agree with the amendments by which the rapporteur seeks to clarify the text. the introduction of the definition of a credit line is important. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − we voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on the structural funds to introduce a general definition of reimbursable aid. the regulation does not define whether aid is reimbursable or non-reimbursable, and article 44 contains only provisions relating to 'financial engineering instruments'. however, member states continued to use forms of reimbursable aid, building on the positive experience of the previous programming period. the definition of 'reimbursable aid' includes reimbursable grants (which are fully or partially reimbursable without interest) and credit lines managed by the managing authority through intermediary bodies (public financial institutions). in view of the increasing application in the field of financial engineering instruments referred to in article 44 and given that the commission has only limited information on such instruments so far, it was considered appropriate to amend the regulation to ensure that member states and the commission can properly monitor these forms of repayable aid and inform the commission thereof.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think it is right that aid should be reimbursable, also because the member states continue to benefit from it after the positive experience of the previous programming period. i also agree with the commission's proposal to introduce a legal obligation to ensure that the financial contribution paid by the managing authorities to constitute financial engineering elements is used for eligible expenditure within two years of the payment to the fund.
in writing. − the european union is facing a prolonged economic and financial crisis which has a worrying negative impact on the economic stability of the member states. the cuts in national resources available to finance public investment have become a constraint on the implementation of cohesion policy. the report adopted today represents a balanced compromise on the retroactivity of the proposed measures, combined with a clause allowing all countries to benefit from the increased cofinancing rate while ensuring that the amending regulation does not prejudice the ongoing negotiations on the future legislative framework and the future multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and her colleague on having dealt with a subject which is necessary to deal with the difficult situation europe is facing in this report, for which i voted in favour. the continuing economic and financial crisis, which has a worrying impact on the macroeconomic stability and the budget of the member states, requires rapid action by providing additional financial resources for those member states in particular difficulty in order to ensure that the programmes continue to be implemented. the method chosen is to 'increase' by 10 percentage points the co-financing rates applicable to the priority axes of the programmes, thus increasing payments to the beneficiary countries. the proposed measures will be transitional and in force until the member state's withdrawal from the financial support mechanism, but a retroactive application of the regulation is necessary. i also share the rapporteur's view on the procedure for a transparent allocation of the surcharge: to this end, a comprehensive accounting of the use of transitionally increased payments is useful, without however increasing the administrative burden.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. we have all now realised that the peripheral debt crisis has turned into a new economic crisis in the euro area, with a very negative impact on the macroeconomic stability and the budget of the member states. the european commission's proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 (the general regulation) providing additional financial resources in other eu member states experiencing particular difficulties in managing their public debt and deficits, therefore aims to ensure fiscal stability by moving along slightly deviated but still right-oriented paths. the eurozone now needs a strong political message. i hope that the next eu summit meeting on 9 december will demonstrate the common will of all member states to cooperate in adopting very specific measures to overcome the crisis.
in writing. - it is impossible not to agree to support a measure which represents a real and substantial breath of fresh air for those member states which are experiencing the greatest economic and financial difficulties. similarly, we cannot but support a measure which is an attempt to maximise the use of european funding, avoiding the risk of it being left unspent because of the lack of financial availability in the member states, and the consequent further deterioration and weakening of economic and social conditions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the introduction of a new system of financial stability in the euro area. however, this does not prevent us from stressing how much it is proof of the failure of the stability pact and the six-pack as desired and approved by the right-wing majority in the commission and in parliament. in particular, this 'quota' intervention is limited to mitigating the 'structural' effects of the vicious circle triggered, in particular, by the failure to exclude investment appropriations from the rigidity of the criteria of the stability pact, also due to the failure to introduce a golden rule on investment. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - my vote on the hübner report is in favour. the cuts in national resources available to finance public investment have clearly become a constraint on the implementation of cohesion policy and the implementation of the structural funds in some countries. it is therefore necessary to provide member states with additional resources to optimise the management of public debt.
in writing. − on 1 december we voted on the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 to introduce an exceptional provision for certain member states in serious economic and financial difficulties. it is part of the package of extraordinary measures adopted by the european commission in august 2011, which became necessary in the light of the economic and financial crisis, which is putting increasing pressure on national financial resources, at a time when member states are making budgetary cuts. this creates a liquidity problem resulting from budgetary constraints, which jeopardises the implementation of cohesion policy programmes and the impact of such investments on the real economy. the purpose of this measure is to amend article 77 of the regulation in order to enable the commission, at the request of the member states concerned and after the council has decided to grant assistance under the support mechanisms, to increase by 10% the reimbursement of expenditure declared for the period in question, thus increasing the cofinancing rates applicable to the priority axes. this will not impose any additional financial burden on the general budget as the total financial allocations of the funds to the countries and programmes concerned for the overall period will remain unchanged.
in writing. the economic crisis we are facing, which is affecting the budgets of the member states every day, is being fought by the member states themselves through different forms of financing. financial stability, the main objective of every state, is in the balance and any proposal to guarantee it must be considered. i voted in favour of mrs hübner's text because it amends council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 in such a way as to solve a dilemma faced by many of the member states which use the system of reimbursable grants, alongside structural fund contributions, as forms of direct aid. in the absence of a precise definition of reimbursable subsidies, it was not possible to establish the extent to which member states could refer to this form of aid without additional interest. the new text states that the structural funds may co-finance repayable aid.
in writing. - i support the amendment of decision 2002/546/ec as regards the extension of the period of application until 31 december 2013 because, due to the crisis, removing from a country such as spain the possibility of not paying a tax such as the aiem on products manufactured in the canary islands may further aggravate an already precarious situation. with this extension, the country will have an expiry date which will coincide with that of the guidelines on regional aid for the period 2007-2013. of course, the temporary and extraordinary measure must remain so.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs hübner's report because i believe it is important to give the outermost regions of the union equal opportunities to trade with the internal regions and therefore it is necessary to lower the level of excise duties for trade in specific products placed on the market by the outermost regions. this is a way of stimulating trade in these products while keeping the price in line with the demands of european markets. taking into account the special conditions and characteristics and the particular constraints of the outermost regions of the european union, the council will adopt specific measures to define the conditions for the application of these policies.
in writing. - in recent weeks, risk premia in italy have reached historic levels on the financial markets. despite recent tensions that may indicate otherwise, the euro has been a success since 2008: without the single currency the global financial crisis would have been far worse for all european countries, and furthermore, the northern european countries would not have recovered from it as quickly as they have since 2009, through their export-based model. there is a thought that even the academic world agrees on: without the euro, the single market and the free movement of people - the union's greatest achievements - would probably implode. i therefore believe that the euro has not failed in its function in the face of the effects of the severe economic and financial crisis but rather that there has been a problem of economic governance of the euro area. economic theory teaches that the feasibility of a single currency depends on the ability to minimise large economic imbalances, where they exist. it is precisely at these times of tension for the european project, of which our currency is a symbol, that the current failures in the euro area must be regarded as a valuable experience to avoid repeating the same mistakes.
in writing. - my vote in favour is first of all a vote of appreciation for the negotiations in the 'conciliation' between the ecofin council and the european parliament delegation, which were characterized by a profoundly constructive atmosphere. i do not deny that there was a great deal of concern that an austerity budget would not allow all the programmes to be financed. however, the increase in financial commitments on immigration has given me satisfaction with the result achieved. i can also be satisfied with the adoption of the package of 70 pilot projects and preparatory actions, totalling eur 105.4 million in terms of expenditure commitments, of which 5 were proposed and supported by the italian delegation of the epp. in the area of immigration, i would like to mention in particular the pilot project on unaccompanied minors, which received eur 1 million in funding. since the beginning of 2011, hundreds of children who landed in italy from north africa have disappeared, often victims of organized crime: this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: this will safeguard the child's best interests by ensuring adequate social reintegration, educational support and genuine integration.
in writing. - the need to strengthen the role of the european central bank is felt by all national and european institutions, particularly in view of the economic and financial circumstances the world is currently experiencing. the public debt of several european states is in critical condition and needs institutional and banking support which is perceived with the same decision-making capacity as the imf. the report also stresses the need for all possible measures to ensure that the ecb's economic and monetary policy is supportive of the individual member states of the union and of the single currency, which has been experiencing a difficult period in recent weeks and is being seriously challenged. the recovery of the single currency and the european economy as a whole is due to important decisions by the ecb, such as the recent decision by the new governor mario draghi to cut interest rates from 1.50% to 1.25%. these and other key measures will strengthen the european central bank and help to revive the euro and the economies of the member states
in writing. - the financial crisis is bringing the euro area close to breaking up. country by country, bailout by bailout, the debt crisis threatens to generate a domino effect throughout europe. the euro has not failed as an integration mechanism for strengthening the single market. however, something definitely did not go as planned: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. there is a lack of internal discipline in the euro area, particularly with regard to compliance with the stability and growth pact, since there have been dozens of violations by many countries since 1999 and no sanctions have ever been applied. for this reason, the euro area has become vulnerable to speculative attacks targeting the sovereign debt of the least efficient and competitive countries. we believe that the european monetary union has a duty to keep inflation under control and to safeguard the purchasing power of the currency. if the euro is to remain a viable project, a clear framework is needed, one that can help countries with liquidity problems, but at the same time be able to encourage fiscal responsibility and a lasting convergence of competitiveness levels between member countries.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. concerns about the impact of interest rate increases on economic growth in the euro area are shared, as these measures could hamper the already slow recovery in the euro area.
in writing. - the report is partially favourable to me because, although the ecb has acted correctly in purchasing government bonds from some eu countries and in supporting the role of the euro as an international currency, it has not been able to adequately counter the overpower of the rating agencies, for example by setting up a european credit rating foundation. i believe that in cooperation with the commission, all reference to the ratings of credit rating agencies should be removed from any official union act. i am also concerned about the establishment of a european finance minister, who, while he could provide advice and support to countries with budgetary problems, could become an expensive body that limits the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. - school dropout is a social issue that must be tackled. more than six million young people in the union leave school before completing secondary education. the average drop-out rate in the european union is 14%. it is also a phenomenon that affects roma children and children with different disabilities, for the latter the rate of drop-out is much higher than their peers and only 40% of them enter secondary school. member states must adopt inclusive integration policies and take more effective action to reduce school dropout, which is one of the main causes of poverty and unemployment. i strongly support mrs honeyball's report, because immediate and concrete action by the union is needed to achieve the target of bringing the school drop-out rate below 10% by 2020.
in writing. − i voted for this report because early school leaving is a huge challenge. one of the five europe 2020 headline targets indeed is to reduce the proportion of early school leavers to less than 10% and to increase the share of the younger generation with a degree or diploma or equivalent level of education to at least 40%. it is fundamental to stress that early school leaving has severe consequences for the eu’s social cohesion as it damages the career prospects, health and well-being of young people. a low level of education is also a key cause of poverty, negative health and social exclusion. unfortunately it is a matter of fact that early school leaving is particularly pronounced among children from poor and disadvantaged backgrounds and children from migrant families. the equality of opportunities and choice in education is vital for creating a fairer and inclusive society. in that regard a fundamental role is played by the public services. therefore the possible public spending cuts in the education sector, on account of the economic crisis and the budgetary austerity policies, will have a terrible impact.
in writing. − the report places a great deal of emphasis on the fight against school drop-out within specific communities such as roma and immigrants; the rapporteur would suggest that in these contexts particular forms of support and measures be taken to enable students without identity papers to go to school. in particular, specific measures are being considered for the roma who, given their traditional habit of frequent travel as nomads, would need special measures in order to overcome these difficulties which result in a naturally high rate of school drop-out among their youth population. as is the case with so many other measures which are put to the vote, this time too special emphasis is placed on these communities, which are the object of reserved treatment by our assembly. i do not share this position, nor in general the tendency to pass legislation in favour of a community which does not show itself to be willing to integrate, thus rendering any action we take in their favour effectively useless. i therefore vote against.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy also includes a 10% reduction in early school leaving by 2020. unfortunately, this is still a problem for many countries, including my own, and in 2009 the average drop-out rate for young europeans aged 18-24 was around 14.4%. i voted in favour of the report, although i acknowledge the difficulty of identifying appropriate policies, which is due to the lack of standard indicators to identify those most at risk. however, there are certain social groups, which are identified by certain factors (low income, poverty and socio-family background) and which require more attention. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that we need to implement strong policies, with a personalised approach, and to create mechanisms for reintegration into the school system, for example through 'second chance' schools. success in this area will have important social and economic implications, with a direct impact on growth and economic stability; it is not enough to think that reducing the drop-out rate in europe by just one percentage point means training almost half a million young people in the skills needed each year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal against the fight against early school leaving. this is a complex phenomenon and a major challenge facing europe. to counter this trend, the national curriculum needs to be renewed and diversified, expanding the range of educational options available to students. offering students a wider choice in school is important not only to increase their motivation to stay but also to provide them with the broad spectrum of knowledge and skills essential for later employment. structural reforms are important in providing young people with the skills and training needed to facilitate their entry into the world of work, including the ability to solve problems, evaluate information critically and communicate effectively. i think it is important to set up alternative or 'second chance' schools, which must be sensitive to the individual needs of people. i would stress that investing more money in tackling early school leaving can have the long-term effect of preventing young people from becoming dependent on social security, thus reducing unemployment in the eu and encouraging the regeneration of the labour force.
in writing. - in the collective european mind, the image of literacy as a result to be achieved is one of areas outside the continent or, at most, of limited and peripheral areas. on the other hand, it is also a problem in 'western' and 'industrialised' areas: it is no coincidence that two recent studies have shown that in italy 71% of the population is below the minimum level of comprehension of a text of medium difficulty. despite these figures, there is no coordinated policy response in the individual member states, making it difficult to achieve the 2020 target. firstly, in line with the european platform for combating poverty, the need to coordinate the two lines of action, creating a synergy capable of reversing the rate of incidence of the poverty factor on the rates of school drop-out and, more generally, poor schooling. national governments, squeezed in the grip of the financial crisis, have mostly cut funding for education; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. the intervention and support of the european institutions has therefore become all the more important, both through the targeted use of the structural funds and through the implementation of alternative financial instruments.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because i believe that early school leaving is a complex phenomenon and an important challenge that europe must necessarily face. school dropout is one of the main drivers of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. it also has serious consequences for the social cohesion of the eu, for economic growth, the skills base and social stability in europe, as it is detrimental to the career prospects, health and well-being of young people. the europe 2020 strategy has set as a key objective for member states to reduce the school drop-out rate to 10% by 2020. this is because high dropout rates have far from rosy social and economic implications. this phenomenon has a negative impact on economic growth and leads to economic and social instability. it is therefore crucial to take action to channel the energy and develop the skills of young people. in this respect, action must be taken by means of greater sponsorship of european instruments for the qualification, training and employment of young people.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr honeyball's report because i believe that the principle of education and training extended to the european population is essential in order to strengthen the labour market and the skills that will be available in tomorrow's society. combating early school leaving by building on high-quality school curricula, a thorough understanding of the disadvantages and problems that lead students to drop out of school and the development of possible alternatives to repeated schooling is a priority if we are to build a europe that is increasingly able to cope with a changing global context. i am firmly convinced that the attention paid to this problem shows the sensitivity of parliament and the european institutions to a subject which, if underestimated, risks undermining the economic and cultural foundations of the future of all of us and, above all, of our children.
in writing. − school drop-out is a complex phenomenon and represents a major challenge facing europe: the europe 2020 strategy sets as a key objective for member states to reduce the school drop-out rate to 10% by 2020. we agree with this report, which, while welcoming some progress by most eu member states, argues that much more needs to be done in this area. high rates of early school leaving have social and economic implications, so it is crucial to take action to channel the energy and develop the skills of young people. structural reforms are therefore essential to provide young people with the skills and training needed to facilitate their entry into the labour market. it is essential that schools encourage student mobility between different educational pathways, whether academic, vocational and so on. offering students a wider choice in school is important not only to increase their motivation to stay but also to provide them with the broad spectrum of knowledge and skills essential for later employment.
in writing. - school drop-out is one of the most urgent social issues facing the european union and the member states. the european commission has taken important initiatives in recent years, and the very recognition of this issue as one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is a testament to the attention paid to this social scourge. school dropout, as acknowledged in the honeyball report, is a complex phenomenon affecting all european societies and has different aspects in different member states. all measures at community and national level should therefore be strengthened to help the most vulnerable families to ensure a high level of education for their children, to encourage the adoption of a personalised and inclusive approach to education starting from early childhood education, to facilitate a sharing of responsibility between families, schools and public authorities, and to improve the ways of reintegrating people who have previously left school into the education system through the development of 'second chance schools', as well illustrated by the rapporteur. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. the rapporteur lists in detail the causes and possible solutions to a problem which still affects too many people in the european union. the member states must therefore examine the problem of early school leavers in greater depth.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the fight which our union is waging against school drop-outs is absolutely necessary and we must support it with conviction. we live in a highly competitive age where education and school culture are the foundation for young people to succeed in life and in the professional world. education shapes people, making them better prepared for life and accustomed to relationships. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - the report by mr honeyball on the fight against early school leaving was voted on in plenary today. school drop-out is a complex phenomenon and a major challenge facing europe. in this regard, the european union has started to put in place a number of measures and tools to better support member states in developing appropriate and effective national policies to address the problem. these include the commission's communication on combating early school leaving, a new proposal for a council recommendation on policies to reduce early school leaving and the 'youth on the move' initiative. most eu member states have made at least some progress in reducing the proportion of young people who leave school early or with low qualifications, and there has been a significant and positive change in their approach to school drop-out. the report voted on today supports the view that much more needs to be done in this respect.
in writing. the rate of early school leaving in the european union is now 15%. reducing this percentage by at least 5 points would have important effects, reducing youth unemployment and the unemployment rate, as those who have left school are then unemployed at the rate of 52%. with today's resolution we call on all member states to analyse the problem of early school leaving by drawing up targeted packages of prevention measures. more effective and more effective policies, tailored to the needs of school education, need to be supported. all young people must be facilitated to enter the world of work through individual guidance services.
in writing. - a report on early school leaving could certainly be an incentive for the european union and the member states to carefully assess the supports needed by young people to help them in their education. a special focus on young people with social integration problems and disabilities was to lead to a request for financial commitment from the member states to improve the structures dedicated to this purpose. unfortunately, the report does not treat all school leavers with equal dignity, but it focuses on ethnic minorities, immigrants and roma, for whom it suggests special consideration and attention. i voted against this because of the discrimination against young europeans.
in writing. − to combat youth unemployment in the european union, a number of measures need to be implemented, such as the extension of compulsory education up to the age of 18 and the creation of so-called 'second chance' schools. in these schools, with the help of teachers, psychologists and educators, children in difficulty, poor and in a state of early failure, also due to the excessive rigidity of the current school system, are reintroduced into the educational circuit with ad hoc training paths that also take into account the passions and extracurricular interests of people. with youth unemployment affecting one in five young people, a reduction of 1% in the school drop-out rate would be enough to make room for 500,000 young skilled workers. moreover, according to recent figures, 52 percent of young people who leave school without a diploma remain unemployed. i believe that it is essential to build on knowledge and an adequate level of education in order to guarantee a europe in economic crisis and with a constantly expanding migratory trend a real chance for development and social cohesion. school reforms should include partnerships between schools and local businesses to provide students with better vocational guidance
in writing. − one of the five main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% and to increase the proportion of young people with a degree or diploma or equivalent to at least 40%. to achieve this, it is necessary for member states to develop ways of reintegrating early school leavers into the education system by implementing appropriate programmes, such as 'second chance schools', which provide an appropriate learning environment, which can help young people to regain confidence in themselves and their ability to learn. more funds are also needed and the accessibility of the european union lifelong learning programme, which increases the mobility of pupils and teachers, supports the exchange of best practice and helps to improve teaching and learning methods, needs to be improved. finally, the funds allocated under the union's structural funds should be used more effectively to implement measures to prevent school absenteeism.
in writing. - i am convinced that this agreement will allow the european union to extend significantly its activities other than official development assistance to countries such as brazil or india, which are both developing countries and very fast-growing emerging economies. i shall vote in favour of the scholz report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because the proposal for a financial instrument for cooperation with industrialized and high-income countries, which is being put forward to help countries in asia and south america and yemen, south africa and iraq, will certainly produce tangible results by financing projects which can be properly completed. clearly, what is also needed is to verify the effectiveness and efficiency of the aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal in this report for greater flexibility in financial instruments to promote democracy and human rights in the world. these are important financial instruments and their approval as a package comprising the dci, dci/mab, ici+ and eidhr was a necessary condition for further streamlining the procedures for acquiring these financial instruments by managing them in a single solution that also makes their bureaucratic processes more homologable. the conciliation on a particularly sensitive subject, such as financial instruments for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world, is an important and tangible sign of the willingness of the european institutions to co-decide to ensure the uniform use of these instruments together with their more effective and less difficult action.
in writing. - my vote on the report by mrs lochbihler is in favour. greater flexibility for the eidhr and for development cooperation is a top priority if we are to build a credible foreign policy as envisaged by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of all of us to export and promote democracy and human rights throughout the world. the fact that the financial instrument for the promotion of these values is increased is certainly one of the most appropriate methods for developing and ensuring that the values in which we believe are upheld and supported. we are in an era when it is necessary to ensure that all the injustices which have characterized the past and the history of our world are overcome by new common values, based on justice and democracy.
in writing. - i fully agree with the rapporteur on the perplexities caused by the lack of parity between institutions in strategic decisions on this matter. i think, however, that the compromise proposed should be accepted. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on the financing of development cooperation, because in the present situation it is necessary to support cooperation as much as possible. cooperation has been a cornerstone of the union's action from the outset. but we must learn from the past to avoid repeating the mistakes made. as i have said, we must ensure that aid is not simply given out in a vacuum, but that it is directed to where it is actually needed. parliament is aiming for more ambitious objectives, but it accepts the compromise approach in order to achieve parity among the co-legislators, which can make work faster and more profitable, so that the development which we are always trying to achieve will always be the prerogative of our governments and our unions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report concerns the european commission's proposal for a recast of the regulation on statistical returns for the carriage of goods by road. the proposal, in the recasting act, contains a twofold objective of the commission: consolidate various acts applicable to road statistics and lay down new conditions for the delegation of powers to the commission itself by the legislator. in my view, the latter proposal, while being in accordance with the provisions of article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, requires too broad a delegation of powers to the commission. at the same time, i believe it is necessary to ensure that the exercise of the powers thus delegated to it does not result in significant additional financial burdens for the respondents. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to limit the scope of the powers delegated to the european commission and to lay down additional and specific conditions for their exercise.
in writing. - the statistical survey of road freight transport serves to codify the various acts applicable to road statistics and to lay down new conditions for delegations in the field of transport. the recasting of the regulation in question, for which i voted in favour, as proposed by the rapporteur, sets out a fair balance of powers delegated between the commission and the european parliament in accordance with the similar approach adopted for the regulation on tourism statistics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the inclusion of the kaliningrad region and other polish administrative districts in the eligible border area. since 2004, following the enlargement of the eu to ten countries including poland, the kaliningrad region has become a de facto russian enclave within the territory of the european union, which has led to a profound change in the living conditions of local citizens. the initiatives taken so far have not been able to reduce to any significant extent the marginalization of the inhabitants of the region concerned and of the region itself, and there was therefore an objective need to remedy this situation. i therefore support the amendment of the regulation on local border traffic, which would avoid the region being fragmented into several districts and would allow the inhabitants of the area to benefit from the facilities for local border traffic. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, considering it appropriate to facilitate the movement of people and cultural, social and economic exchanges in that region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the triantaphyllides report. with the adoption of regulation (ec) no 1931/2006, the european union introduced a general derogation for local traffic at land borders for border residents, considering a local border area to be an area within 30 km. member states can thus admit border residents into the union with only a local border traffic pass, without the need to present additional documents such as a visa. poland and the russian federation have proposed an amendment to the regulation in view of the particular situation of the kaliningrad district. this region, with a population of about one million and surrounded by the eu except for the baltic sea, is artificially fragmented into three districts: one subject to the border traffic agreement with poland, one with lithuania and one not subject to any agreement. such a change would allow all inhabitants to benefit from the facilities for local border traffic and would ensure the elimination of artificial and arbitrary barriers between the residents of the region.
in writing. − local border areas are a very important tool developed by the european union to ensure that no artificial and arbitrary barriers are erected between residents of regions divided by national borders. we agree with the rapporteur that member states should conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring third countries in order to promote regular contacts between people living on both sides of the external borders of the european union. the 2004 enlargement created an artificial barrier to the long-standing cultural, social and economic links between the inhabitants of the whole region, so we support the request for amendment of the regulation as formulated in the commission proposal. this is an important opportunity for us to reaffirm our strong commitment to the principle of free movement and to support firmly and consistently the right of people to move freely. we therefore call on poland to take concrete action to facilitate movement and to avoid unnecessary delays or other ordinary complications which in fact hinder the free movement of citizens in the kaliningrad region.
in writing. - this report is a very useful tool to clearly reaffirm the european parliament's unconditional commitment to freedom of movement. in this context, as mr triantaphyllides rightly points out, the amendment of the regulation should be designed to ensure that the whole of the kaliningrad district is considered as a single border area.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the regulation for residents in border areas with the european union because it is important for both the border member states and the citizens of non-eu countries living along the borders to facilitate the passage without the need for visas or special checks. for the sake of the quiet life of the citizens of these territories and to facilitate their private lives and the commercial relations between small traders in the areas concerned, i think it is important to establish regulations which are appropriate to the needs of those citizens. specifically, the regulation concerns the inclusion in the areas concerned, as described above, of the kaliningrad region and certain border areas of poland.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region of the russian federation became an enclave in the european union following enlargement in 2004, and since then its links with neighbouring countries have been severely restricted. in recent years, the union has taken a number of initiatives to facilitate the movement of residents of kaliningrad. among the various measures taken was the establishment of a facilitated rail transit document for travel between kaliningrad and mainland russia. in 2007, the eu and russia concluded the visa facilitation agreement, which simplifies the issuing of short-stay visas for all russian citizens travelling to the schengen countries. local border areas are a very important tool developed by the european union to ensure that no artificial and arbitrary barriers are erected between residents of regions divided by national borders. it is therefore necessary for member states to conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring third countries in order to promote regular contacts between people living on both sides of the external borders of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, i abstained on the vote on croatia's application for membership of the european union. in recent years, croatia has undoubtedly made considerable progress in reforming the judiciary and public administration, fighting corruption and organised crime, and protecting the rights of minorities. i am convinced, however, that much remains to be done in memory of the extensive ethnic cleansing of the italian population carried out between 1945 and 1948 by the croatian authorities of the former yugoslav communist regime. above all, no commitment has been made to recognize the rights of the exiles, starting with the property confiscated during those years.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i fully support the conclusion of the accession negotiations for eu membership with croatia. i believe that croatian membership will make the eu stronger, will enrich its culture and will make an important contribution giving a positive impetus to the process of european integration. i also would like to stress the need for croatia to keep up the reform momentum and to continue with the same vigour and hard work also after the conclusion of the negotiations and beyond accession. while acknowledging the good progress made, croatia should continue to implement reform of the judiciary and facilitate the return of refugees and displaced persons, paying special attention to the situation of ethnic serbian returnees. in addition to that croatian authorities should strengthen the administrative capacities of anti-corruption bodies and foster a culture of political, public sector and judicial accountability as a prerequisite for reinforcing the rule of law.
in writing. - we consider that the conditions set for croatia's admission to the european union are fully met. the european parliament will have to be consulted on any substantial changes to the draft treaty. we also believe that the european commission must play a vital role in monitoring the further preparations for accession with rigor and objectivity and in helping the croatian authorities to comply with the commitments and obligations they have assumed in the negotiations. we expect the commission to regularly inform parliament of the measures taken by the croatian authorities to honour the commitments and fully assume the obligations arising from the accession scheduled for 1 july 2013.
in writing. − in view of the accession requirements that croatia has demonstrated to date, i am in favour of the application for membership being accepted. i would add that this is a very important fact for the european union and for the entire balkan area.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament, thanks also to my vote in favour, has approved the recommendations to the council for croatia's accession to the eu. after eight years of negotiations, we are finally at the decisive moment when the croatian people, through a referendum next year, will decide whether croatia will be part of the european union from 2013. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to combat corruption, including the introduction of a new criminal code, the abolition of the death penalty, and the abolition of the death penalty. all achievements that deserve unconditional recognition.
in writing. − croatia's accession to the european union as of 1 july 2013 is the culmination of eight years of negotiations which deserve full recognition, given croatia's transformation into a strong and mature democracy, based on the founding values of the european union. i hope that this accession will act as a catalyst for the reform processes in the western balkan countries. this will enable croatia and its citizens to enjoy fully the rights and guarantees provided for in the eu treaties. in addition to rights, the croatian authorities must respect the commitments made in the negotiations and encourage the participation of representatives of civil society throughout the accession process. in parallel, further support through the pre-accession instrument should facilitate adaptation to reform initiatives. my vote in favour of this report also underlines the need to continue the policies for reform towards an impartial and transparent judiciary against all forms of corruption and transnational organised crime. i also encourage closer cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, in particular on the prosecution of war crimes and the integration of political refugees.
in writing. - the adoption of this report marks the end of a process which began six years ago and which is of profound significance both for croatia and for the european union. the enlargement of our institution to croatia is an opportunity for growth and development for both parties to the agreement. it is an important and final moment in years of negotiations which have seen the balkan country engaged in a process of building social and economic standards in line with eu expectations and principles. it should not be forgotten that the political history of croatia, like that of many other countries in the balkans, reflects a difficult and complex process of democratic formation. i am convinced that today a path has been started which will see, on the one hand, croatia committed to improving its social sectors and, on the other hand, the european union strengthened by enlargement to a new member state, as envisaged by the principles of our founding fathers aware of the importance of being united in diversity.
in writing. - my vote on the swoboda report is in favour. the rapporteur points out the positive aspects of croatia's accession to the european union and identifies precisely what croatia should do to increase its european spirit, both within the institutions and in the convictions of its citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document in favour of croatia's accession to the eu because i consider it strategic for this country to join the european union. however, as the document recalls, it is important that zagreb address the remaining open issues, particularly in the field of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. - he personally voted in favour of croatia's accession to the european union. the eu has given its preliminary approval to a europe of 28 while awaiting the croatian people's vote in a referendum. by 1 july 2012, croatia will have to continue to solve its internal problems, fight corruption and put justice first. structural reforms are needed to control public debt and to promote the labour market. so far, despite the global economic crisis, croatia has met all the standards that were set for it. this is certainly a positive development and is in line with the wishes of the balkan country to join the union.
in writing. the report proposes a number of acceptable amendments to the code of conduct for meps. the importance of our position in this house obliges us, both from the political point of view and from the point of view of ethics and transparency, to make the rules governing the relationship between our group and external interests as strict and rigorous as possible. i agree with the introduction of the amendments in the casini report, especially the introduction of greater clarity on the subject of conflicts of interest and on the funding and support received for the conduct of political activity. the new sanctions for breaches of the code and the establishment of the advisory committee on the conduct of members are also welcome. i therefore vote in favour of the casini report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, clarity and transparency are the basis of the work of every mep as a direct representative of the interests of the citizens. we all, from the top of our offices, must set an example and not compromise in ways that do not reflect the objective of our mandate. the report by mr casini amends the regulation on the code of conduct for members in even greater detail, in the hope that no one will fall into financial irregularities and conflicts of interest. my vote in favour is my commitment to clarity and transparency for the electorate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that this code lays down rules and principles which members must respect in their external contacts, in order to avoid conflicts of interest. the new code of conduct will be a strong shield against unethical behaviour and a big step forward from the current situation. the broad support given by meps to the new code of conduct has a symbolic value which cannot be ignored. it is a public demonstration that the european parliament is a transparent instrument for serving the common good and for building europe on the lines of freedom and justice.
in writing. - mr president, we are in a particular period of crisis in which the coordination of the economic policies of the member states plays a fundamental role. the experience of the previous european semester has shown that national reform programmes still lack transparency and feasibility. national economic and fiscal policies must be an instrument for achieving the objectives set out in the stability pact and the europe 2020 strategy; to this end, a european level assessment is necessary for the union to act with a coordinated approach in addressing economic difficulties at european and national level. i hope that in january, when the commission presents its annual growth analysis, we will have a clearer picture of all future coordination measures in the economic sector, so that we can deal with the challenges ahead with greater determination and concrete action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the coordination of economic policies is of the utmost importance at this time of great crisis for the european union. europe needs, more than ever, a symmetrical approach based on a common response by the member states to the problems arising from the economic crisis and the resulting increase in inequalities and macro-financial imbalances. in my view, the policies of the various countries should be strongly interlinked in order to ensure sustainable growth and increased employment, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy. the european union must confront the lack of confidence of european citizens in european integration. i therefore believe it is essential that such coordination should be aimed at ensuring greater legitimacy, accountability and transparency in decision-making processes. moreover, if one considers that the european semester has the objectives of verifying that budgetary discipline is applied and of monitoring the implementation of strategy 2020, the requirement of transparency is fundamental. i hope that the member states will make greater efforts to ensure that economic, financial and social policies are more effective.
in writing. − as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy, improving the economic governance framework should be based on a set of interconnected and mutually consistent policies for sustainable growth and employment. the european semester is a useful tool for pursuing these aims. this will certainly benefit the euro area member states, which are bound by a common responsibility. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, because it takes the europe 2020 strategy as the basis and objective for the whole analysis, i.e. an action which, perhaps also because of the crisis, is not at all bearing the hoped-for fruit. however, this is not the first time that these much-vaunted strategies have turned out to be resounding failures, and the crisis cannot be an alibi for the failure of this europe 2020 too. i therefore think it is a risky move to base a large part of the objectives of economic policy coordination on this strategy. i should also add that in several respects it seems to me that the aim is to coordinate the social policies of the member states rather than their economies. the coordination semester has only been in place for a few months, but i think its value and significance must be different from what is expressed in this report.
in writing. - we have approved the six pack and with the two new regulations proposed by the commission last week the emphasis is on fiscal and budgetary discipline and control by the community institutions. that is right, we must return to having rules of budgetary discipline and procedures must be automatic. however, we cannot forget growth, because if we are to impose strict rules on our public budgets, demanding also rigorous structural reforms, we must at the same time implement measures for growth, because otherwise, in a global context, europe, or many of its countries, risks recession. in all this we cannot forget the relationship with our citizens and that is why in mr berès' report on the european semester we call for greater involvement of the national parliaments and the european parliament. because what this crisis has shown above all in identifying the answers is precisely the lack of unity, of political leadership and the democratic deficit towards our citizens.
in writing. − the single market is today one of the most important safeguards we have for boosting the european economy, but it is also the starting point for completing the european project. i am voting in favour of the resolution because i believe that events should be held more and more to involve citizens in the european project. the single market forum was successful for this very reason.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the resolution for which i voted in favour concerns the european single market forum held in krakow on 3-4 october. in the 20 years since the opening of the frontiers, the single market has given a major boost to the european economy and has changed the lives of its citizens for the better. today, we are still relying on the growth potential of the european single market to deal with the financial crisis, and that is why i also hope that the single market forum will be organised on a regular basis, to enable businesses, citizens and local and regional authorities to participate directly and to influence the future development of the european market.
in writing. - mr president, a global eu response to hiv/aids is needed as it is a virus and a disease affecting 2.2 million people in the eu and neighbouring countries. according to the latest available data, about 26 000 people are infected each year in europe and neighbouring countries, and it is estimated that more than 30% of those infected in the eu are unaware of their infection. the union must respond effectively and appropriately to the evolution and spread of the virus in order to combat it and to provide assistance to those already infected. the commission and the council should swiftly implement the communication 'the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and neighbouring countries 2009-2013' and implement a specific action plan to combat new infections, supported above all by numerous information and awareness campaigns, to make everyone understand the seriousness of the phenomenon.
in writing. - today is world aids day. this is a very important meeting to raise awareness of this complex disease and the worrying increase in the number of people affected. since 1981, aids has killed over 25 million people, making it one of the most destructive epidemics in recorded history. it is therefore essential that europe adopts a common strategy to combat aids/hiv, focusing primarily on prevention and on comprehensive and effective information. i think, however, that the approach adopted in parliament's resolution is not exhaustive and does not properly highlight the vulnerability of women to this disease. in europe, the number of women affected by the disease is steadily increasing: in fact, as many as 35% of new diagnoses are in women. it is also shown by various studies that women are twice as likely to be infected in unprotected sex as men, due to both cultural limitations and greater biological vulnerability. i therefore believe that the resolution should have highlighted the initiatives that could be taken to alleviate this situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that a complete and early diagnosis of hiv is of fundamental importance in the fight against its spread. in fact, timely treatment can reduce the infectivity of patients and the rate of hiv transmission by up to 96%. prevention and information remain the cornerstones of appropriate and effective healthcare for the protection of the patient. i would also like to read this resolution in the light of the specific context of the defence of the right to health of the immigrant population, which must be guaranteed the best possible level of care and treatment. consider that, according to the 2011 unaids report, 68% of the world's hiv-infected population resides in sub-saharan africa, an area from which considerable migration flows to europe originate. in addition, the migration process often puts migrants at a disadvantage and exposes them to a higher risk of contracting infectious diseases such as hiv/aids. it is therefore important to work towards ensuring universal and equitable access to prevention, testing, treatment and care for people living with hiv, as well as treatment for co-infections such as tuberculosis and hepatitis b and c, among others.
in writing. − hiv infection is still a widespread phenomenon in our society, and many people who are infected are often unaware that they have it. it is therefore necessary to take all the necessary measures both in the treatment and, above all, in the prevention, taking into account also the fact that aids is a predictable disease. in this sense, i support the idea of making hiv/aids prevention programmes an integral part of sexual and reproductive health care and of facilitating women's access to preventive treatment, since they often face difficulties due to the limited financial resources available or their position of responsibility in caring for their children. i therefore welcome the measures suggested by the rapporteurs to the community institutions, such as the commission and the council, and to the member states, to improve and make more efficient the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and in neighbouring countries. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the problem of hiv virus transmission is still dramatically relevant 30 years after its discovery. the resolution presented today certainly contains positive aspects, such as the call for strengthening the tools for detecting and preventing the virus, the need to improve the care of those affected and the call for investing in research so that this syndrome can finally be defeated. it is also important to have a proper information and awareness campaign to combat the prejudices still present in our societies. however, i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it contains a message which i do not think is acceptable: i refer to article 22, which states that abortion is a legitimate means of preventing infection. i therefore abstained because, while i share the general support for the fight against aids, i cannot allow any compromise in favour of the practice of abortion.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest health problems of our time is undoubtedly that of hiv and aids. although the information is now very widespread, statistics show that every three hours there is a new infection, and that is why i think it is absolutely necessary for the eu to continue its fight against this tragedy which continually affects millions of people in the world. we are not just talking about poor and underdeveloped areas, such as those in africa, but the whole world, europe. i think that it is necessary and necessary to persevere in order to reach a common response, without letting our guard down.
in writing. - it would be unthinkable - in line with the developments in the enp - not to support the association agreement with ukraine, which, on the other hand, plays a key strategic role in a sector as fundamental as energy resources. however, the well-known political and judicial events cannot be left in the background. in this sense, the political significance of the agreement must be strengthened, as was recently stated by mrs timoshenko herself, and it must go hand in hand with the economic and trade aspects of the agreement. it must therefore become the instrument through which to encourage the development and progress of reforms, as the document in question calls for. this is not an easy path, and it is even less obvious, as demonstrated by the rejection of the amendment which decriminalised the offence of abuse of power or by the continued imprisonment of tymoshenko and other opposition figures. no political interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, but careful and active monitoring of the respect of those individual and political freedoms, which are fundamental prerequisites in the path of approximation to the eu. the support for the agreement must therefore be read in this direction, without compromising on respect for the rights of minorities and the democratic principles, which are also well expressed in the same document.
in writing. - ukraine is a country of the former soviet union which is of enormous strategic importance for the interests of the european union. but this must not make us blind to the violations of human rights. it is essential that cooperation between the european union and ukraine passes through the question of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, there have been many trade agreements between the european union and ukraine for some time now, simplifying trade legislation to and from europe or establishing new procedural forms to encourage import-export. the report by mr legutko, for which i also voted in favour, is a step towards replacing the partnership and cooperation agreement (in force since 1998) with the more comprehensive association agreement which will allow further negotiations to be opened and additional agreements to be concluded. ukraine will thus achieve an unprecedented level of integration with the eu in its relations with third countries. moreover, with this agreement, the eu-ukraine negotiations will be among the most advanced in the eastern neighbourhood and thus set an example for the european neighbourhood policy as a whole.
in writing. the negotiations referred to in the report we voted on this morning, namely the meeting on 19 december, are still in the pipeline, as it was reported a few days ago that the ukrainian president, viktor yanukovych, closed a debate with the press on whether or not he would attend the eu-ukraine summit by saying that he would "be there where it is necessary for the ukrainian national interests". he left so much doubt with this enigmatic phrase about his participation. on a historic occasion when kiev and brussels could sign an association agreement whereby the european union would grant the ukrainian side the same privileged partner status enjoyed today by iceland, switzerland, and norway, the president seems to want to make himself desirable. i would like the european parliament to reflect on this lack of full involvement of the state, which should be more interested in participating in the summit. the news of the participation of the ukrainian head of state in the eurasian summit is a provocation orchestrated by the presidential administration itself to raise the stakes with the european union in the last days of negotiations before the launch of the association agreement. an assessment of ukraine's application for eu membership within the next 10 years.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal on the modernisation of customs services. customs are of fundamental importance for international trade, and i therefore believe that customs legislation and procedures need to be simplified, standardised and modernised. different national interpretations of union customs legislation are a source of red tape for businesses, with a consequent negative impact on european competitiveness. modernising customs and introducing modern and efficient it tools must be a major political priority, thus bringing clear added value to operators in the european union and, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises. an effective customs policy is crucial for the protection of intellectual property rights and the fight against the illegal entry of counterfeit goods and products into the single market and thus strengthens security control and protection for european consumers. i do not agree with articles 41 to 46 on preferential origin, however, because i think it is limiting to give 'ready-made solutions' now on such a sensitive subject which has been discussed for years. the most appropriate forum for discussing this issue will be the ordinary procedure which will be triggered by the next commission legislative proposal to revise the customs code.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for improvements in customs services, aimed at making control and verification procedures more streamlined and less problematic for companies trading with non-eu countries, has been increasingly evident. the aim of modernising the customs services system by simplifying bureaucratic procedures is essentially to promote a subsidiarity approach to enterprises. the recognition that, in a time of crisis such as the present one, greater flexibility and easier business processes for european entrepreneurs are needed should indicate a political and economic awareness more focused on solving certain problems. however, i think it is right to point out that greater flexibility is not the opposite of a still firm rigidity in the controls and safety of products passing through the customs of the member states. security and less administrative burden for traders are two factors which, in my view, can coexist in the process of modernising customs services.
in writing. − customs have an increasingly significant role in improving and influencing competitiveness in the european union. at the same time, they play a key role in ensuring effective security controls, protecting intellectual property rights and contributing to the fight against fraud in the community. we agree with the rapporteur that customs must be modernised and that cooperation between the various customs bodies and bodies (traders, customs authorities, other government agencies, the commission and the european parliament) must be encouraged, since this is essential if customs are to play their full part. we therefore support a timely and transparent flow of information between all parties involved. we also believe that a proper balance should be struck between customs controls to ensure the safety and smooth circulation of legitimate goods. however, cooperation between all customs authorities, as well as between customs authorities, operators and other government authorities, will have to be ensured; in this connection, we strongly support the idea of coordinated border management and the principles of the single window, the single control and centralised customs clearance. we also support the creation of a european customs agency to deal with customs matters.
in writing. - i fully agree with the provisions and the approach of this report. i believe that at the heart of everything there must be ever greater cooperation between the states and all the other actors concerned. the rapporteur is right about the need to introduce modernisation measures such as simplification of customs legislation and interoperable computerisation of customs, which will help to facilitate trade practices.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr salvini's report because the modernisation of customs services follows the line of legislative simplification which is being pursued in all areas. simplification of customs procedures improves the efficiency of controls and the enforcement of rules. in addition, harmonisation between the 27 customs administrations of the european union, which should operate as one entity, improving the transparency of information and speeding up the flow of information, helps controls by contributing to the fight against fraud. cooperation between the various actors and institutions in the customs field and uniform treatment throughout the european union are essential to ensure that customs perform their task in the best possible way.
in writing. − the competitiveness of the european economy is of paramount importance, especially in order to revitalise the internal market. customs play a significant role in improving and influencing competitiveness, as simplification of customs legislation and promotion of electronic customs stimulate economic growth. to play their full role, however, customs must be modern. the report adopted today notes that cooperation between the various actors and institutions in the customs field is essential to ensure that customs carry out their mission. it is necessary to ensure cooperation between customs authorities, as well as between customs authorities and operators and customs authorities and other government authorities. coordinated border management and the principles of the single entry point, single control and centralised customs clearance must all be essential elements of the future reform.
in writing. − i am in favour of the own-initiative report to postpone the application of the updated customs code regulation to 2016 which was due to enter into force in 2013. the main reasons are the lack of the necessary electronic software to link the customs activities of the member states, but also and above all the companies in the sector that operate with third countries. the risk would have been that counterfeit or unsafe goods would be illegally imported into the eu, or that delays and mismanagement would have caused economic and material damage to our production system.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give the reasons for my vote in favour of the report on the modernisation of customs services, as it is an important and necessary text to give the european commission the green light to postpone the entry into force of a regulation adopted in 2008 and which was supposed to take effect in 2013. our delegation would have preferred to have deleted from the text references to the non-preferential principle of origin which we do not share, which has nothing to do with the text of the report and which we will fight against if it were to be brought up during the debate on the legislative proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of customs services because i believe that simplification of customs legislation is necessary in order to improve and influence competitiveness. the role of customs is essential in ensuring security controls, particularly in the fight against fraud. but this requires efficient it systems to ensure the safety of products and to block the marketing of less safe products. i voted against the elements referring to the non-preferential origin of goods not because i do not agree with the principle, but because i believe that the reference to the definition of the origin of products should not be included in this report which aims to establish criteria for improving the competitiveness of customs.
in writing. − an efficient customs union is one of the cornerstones of the european integration process and the basis for the free movement of goods, economic development and growth in the internal market. the updated eu customs code, adopted in 2008, is extremely ambitious in terms of deadlines, but the new proposal must aim at a real improvement on the current situation, bringing clear added value to operators in the european union and, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises. the fight against customs violations and the threats posed by smuggling, organised crime, corruption, terrorism and other crimes must be intensified. these objectives can be achieved by paying particular attention to the implementation of the world customs organisation's recommendations on risk management, the protection and security of legitimate trade, the establishment of partnerships with businesses in the field of customs automation and the fight against corruption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a bad agreement, a bad extension and a bad result of the management of these years: these are the key words of this debate! well, we'll have to file this. if the commission - or rather the commissioner who did not negotiate this agreement - asks us to approve the agreement, we must put this phase behind us and above all think of the new, of what will happen in the coming years! i don't know if it's convenient for someone like me who has been defending the sarawi cause for many years to have no relation with morocco anymore. we cannot replace the agreement, without which we would not be able to resolve the conflict that has been going on for over thirty years. i am very much in favour of the fisheries agreement, but i do not think that the fisheries agreement is the way to solve this problem. we will not be able to find a solution where the un has maintained a mission for 30 years which has not solved all the humanitarian problems. so let us say yes to the resolution, yes to the extension of this agreement, because the resolution must give the commission the strength to push it to deal with the matter in a tough way, to ensure that the new agreement really meets these requirements and that this is also a signal to the union's foreign policy. it is no longer possible for baroness ashton not to deal with the sarawi issue!
member of the commission. − mr president, dear members of parliament, after more than eighteen months of discussions, the commission welcomes the political agreement finally reached by the european parliament and the council on the financing of the experimental reactor iter in the years 2012 and 2013. this is the second piece of good news in the last few weeks as far as the eu budget is concerned. on 1 december, parliament adopted the 2012 budget, including part of the additional amount required by iter. this week parliament is asked to agree on almost a billion euro increase in the expenditure ceiling of heading 1a, under which iter is financed. the proposed revision of the current multiannual financial framework will provide the fresh money necessary to cover most of the additional financing needs of iter in 2012 and 2013. the fact that parliament and council are able to take such important decisions, despite the current difficulties in national public finances, is a sign that europe can and does work. so let us focus on this, let us move forward even in difficult times to promote projects that are expected to have a significant impact for the future of next generations. i hope that we can stick to the agreement found on the financing of iter, which takes into account the concerns of both arms of the budgetary authority and strikes the right balance between fresh money and funds available within the existing expenditure ceilings. the decision to revise the current multiannual financial framework provides certainty to the funding of iter and enhances the credibility of the union vis-à-vis its international partners participating in the iter project. i would also like to say that the commission will take on board the statement made by the rapporteur. we have to reflect on that and i think we can come up with a fruitful proposal relating to the upcoming 2013 financial prospects of this project. i would like also to say that we understand the concerns of some member states, but we have to stick to this agreement now and see what will happen in the future. in this regard, i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr böge, mr lamassoure as chair of the committee on budgets, as well as the polish presidency for all their efforts to achieve an acceptable compromise. let us stick to this compromise in the name of the eu’s general interest and in the spirit of loyal interinstitutional cooperation. i am confident that this house will give the deserved support to the resolution proposed by your rapporteur.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, on behalf of the itre committee, i too welcome the agreement reached. this opinion was adopted by a large majority within the committee. i hope that tomorrow in the house we will also have the broadest possible response to the agreements reached. i believe that the strongly worded question in the committee, namely not to touch the funds for the seventh framework programme and for research, was a safeguard agreement for all of us. at the same time, the european union does not lose its credibility and confidence and will continue to be an international partner, making the most of the investments already made. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the iter project is of strategic importance at international level for the european union, which is leading a huge research project for the future energy supply with other countries such as the united states and russia. the final agreement on this important project is a success that aims to ensure continuity for iter's funding for the 2012-13 period. after a series of complex trilogue negotiations, parliament achieved a major success by imposing an agreement that iter will be financed with fresh money from a revision of the financial framework to increase heading 1a to eur 840 million, with the remaining eur 360 million to be made available in the 2013 budget. the importance of this agreement lies in the fact that it prevented iter from being financed by re-allocation of the seventh framework programme or from heading 1a, budgetary chapters key to the revival of a european economy in crisis, which could not be compromised in any way. i hope therefore that tomorrow all our colleagues will vote in favour of this project, which is of great importance for the whole of the european union.
the european union must guarantee its citizens and residents effective freedom of movement between the 27 member states in safe conditions. this is not guaranteed today to those people - mainly women, but not only - who, despite having obtained protection measures in their own country, often with great difficulty as a result of persecution, stalking, repeated threats - even death - by a person they know - often a relative, as commissioner reding also said, or an ex-husband or boyfriend, or any other person they know - are no longer protected when they move to another member state. with this directive, parliament and the council, in collaboration with the commission, have sought to fill this legislative gap. i would like to remind you that we have applied the codecision procedure for the first time, on the initiative of the spanish presidency, together with 12 other member states, including italy, and with the strong support of the polish presidency, which i thank. this is the first legal instrument for the effective prevention and protection of victims actual or potential of crimes against the person, including moral crimes within the community, which can be adopted by national authorities, both civil and criminal, with measures equal to or equivalent to those of the issuing state. as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group's femm committee, i would like to highlight the excellent cooperation that has been established with the two rapporteurs and the valuable contribution of ezio perillo from parliament's legislative office, today at the luxembourg court. i would also like to express my satisfaction with the qualifying points of our proposal: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the protection of the rights of the child is not restricted to the protection of the physical and mental integrity, dignity and personal freedom and sexual integrity of the child, the right to information, the guarantees of information also for the person making the threat about the consequences of the breach of the ope, the obligation of the member states to compile comparable statistics. i naturally expect parliament to express its views on the victims package, which has already been announced by commissioner reding, in order to make this central role of protecting victims truly transversal.
madam president, the adoption of this directive marks the end of a long, positive legislative journey that started with the european council in december 2009, a journey that saw 12 member states, including italy, at the forefront of a european approach to the protection and protection of victims, including first and foremost victims of gender-based violence women including domestic violence and stalking, as well as other categories of very vulnerable victims, including minors and people with disabilities. the european protection order is a mutual recognition instrument in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and a system for removing and punishing offenders by prohibiting access to the protected person's place of residence and by imposing restrictions on contact with or approach to the victim. i believe that this is a concrete step towards the creation of a european area of freedom and justice, a step forward in terms of cooperation between the member states for the concrete affirmation of the fundamental rights of european men and women. it is measures like this that strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the authority of the european institutions and, for this very reason, i conclude by congratulating all those who have worked on this important dossier, first of all mrs jiménez-becerril barrio and mr romero lópez. i also thank commissioner reding for her proverbial sensitivity on these issues and, above all, for her practical commitment to the defence of the victims.
mr president, the report we are discussing is in fact proposing a total equality of rights between migrant workers and european citizens, who are the real pillars of our economies and social systems. in some cases, the measures contained in this report would even open up a preferential lane for workers from third countries who are staying in a member state, such as tax benefits and ad hoc forms of assistance to move around the labour market. i believe in all sincerity that - especially at a time of economic and social crisis such as this - the european and national institutions should first and foremost support our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the data on poverty in europe paint a dramatic picture: more than 60 million citizens are at risk of poverty, with 15 percent of the population having to make do with incomes below 60 percent of the national average. one in eight people live in households where no one is working, and one in five children is at risk of poverty. in the face of this, euro-boonism is thinking about how to accommodate workers from third countries, but in reality we do not even know how to guarantee decent living standards to our own workers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although all the member states of the european union must respect the right of citizens to a fair trial, national procedures for information during criminal proceedings vary considerably from one country to another. some states provide that defendants are only given oral information on their procedural rights, others provide information - especially if technical - only in writing or at the request of the accused. if we consider that more than eight million criminal proceedings are initiated in the european union every year, it is easy to see the inadequacy of an information system that is still so varied and heterogeneous. i therefore share the content and objectives of this directive. i refer in particular to the general rule that the accused must be informed of his procedural rights before the proceedings are opened, with particular reference to the right to be assisted by a lawyer and to have official translations if they are in another language. as regards the post-opening phase, i agree with the two specific rights chosen: the right of the accused to full information on the charges against him and his right of access to the public prosecution file. these are two essential conditions for assessing and combating the lawfulness of arrest or detention and for providing the best line of defence. i therefore congratulate the commissioner, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the work done in the informal trilogues which led to the adoption of measures which will allow the spread and harmonious development of fundamental rights, such as the right to a defence and the right to a fair trial.
mr president, i would once again draw the attention of the house to the increasingly serious situation of the turin-lyon railway and the work being carried out in the susa valley. the european funds - as i have often pointed out - were granted to the italian government as a european contribution on the basis of completely false information. it was said that the local communities had been duly consulted, and that was not true; it was said that the work had begun, and it was not true. the only thing that has been done is to militarize the susa valley, which has recently been declared a strategic zone of interest almost as a military occupation. many people in the valley have submitted numerous petitions calling on the european parliament to stop trusting the information from the executive commission and the council because they are accomplices of the italian government in this whole maneuver. the local population does not want this railway for a variety of reasons, which have been shown in very important studies by experts. it is now necessary for parliament to send a committee to the susa valley to take stock of the situation as it is.
the rapporteur. mr president, the council has again made an urgent request on the matter for which i was appointed rapporteur for parliament to express its opinion at the december 2011 meeting of the committee on fisheries. as rapporteur and on behalf of our committee on fisheries, i oppose the council's request for urgency, as i did for the same request on 15 november 2011, and i also think it is necessary to briefly summarise the matter. this council proposal concerns access for vessels flying the flag of venezuela to the exclusive economic zone off the coast of the french department of guiana. as the title suggests, the proposal is similar to an international agreement on which, under the lisbon treaty, parliament has the right to express its opinion as a co-legislator under the ordinary legislative procedure. the question is not difficult in substance: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the essential point is, however, something else. the european commission has submitted the proposal to parliament on the basis of a specific legal basis, articles 43.2 and 218.6a of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the parliament, in view of the content and spirit of the proposal, which gave it the power of approval, accepted it in full. however, in its subsequent referral to parliament, the council unilaterally amended the legal basis in question, setting aside articles 43.2 and 218.6a and opting for articles 43.3 and 218.6b, thus reducing the expression of parliament to a simple opinion. i would remind you that the coordinators of our committee rejected this amendment by the council and referred the matter to the legal affairs committee of the european parliament before adopting any final position. the commission has confirmed the validity of the legal basis initially adopted by the european commission and, in particular, has alerted our committee on fisheries to the unpleasant precedent which could be set by the implementation of such a combination of articles 43 (3) and 218 (6b) of the treaty. in response to the council's insistence that only the opinion be obtained and not the approval as soon as possible, the chair of the committee on fisheries, fraga estévez, in a letter to president buzek dated 5 october 2011, recalled both the position of the committee on fisheries and that of the committee on legal affairs and suggested to president buzek that, in order to resolve any dispute, the council be invited to refer to parliament again a proposal containing the original legal basis by restoring to our assembly its full right as co-legislator. on 26 october 2011, president buzek sent a letter to the council to that effect which, in its reply, simply states and i repeat, simply this: the council's amendment of the legal basis initially adopted by the european commission was not a light-hearted choice and was the result of careful reflection. that is not a satisfactory answer. the european parliament is therefore obliged to vote, in the committee on fisheries on 20 december, on the draft report which restores the appropriate legal basis. it is therefore essential that parliament should reject this proposal.
mr president, the conclusions of the european council were not what we expected, since the treaty of lisbon provides the elements, the cover, for giving credible answers. we had called for the introduction of eurobonds and the financial transaction tax, for more resources to be allocated to the state aid fund and for a review of the role of the european central bank. but as you said yourself this morning, nothing of the kind has been decided. the council's response was to introduce budgetary discipline to stem the erosion of financial resources, but without focusing on growth. a small achievement, achieved through an agreement between 26 countries with a tortuous path, which we have always rejected. mr president, the budget deficit has been supplemented by a democratic deficit, with the commission and the european parliament excluded. there is a two-speed europe, mr president, that of the states and that of the citizens. parliament supports the people's europe and i call on president barroso to have the commission on our side.
mr president, i am very much afraid that the meagre and disappointing results of the brussels summit mark a historic milestone, the end of the process of historic inevitability of european unity, and this should worry those who have always been euro-enthusiasts. it was a pointless farce which did not appease, let alone stop, speculation. one thing that investors fear is that the euro will default soon. the european banking authority has revealed that some 40 banks in the european economic area have sold cdss, default swap claims for €170 billion on bonds from greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain. a cds market that is growing so rapidly suggests one thing for certain, namely that the markets are afraid of default, that they do not trust each other, that speculation is growing and that investors are saying "hello, hello" to europe, leaving the field open to speculation. we are heading for the disaster of the euro as a currency that markets tend to reject. this is your result, congratulations!
mr president, the presidents of the commission and the council have explained to us how things went in the council, but then mr martin schulz spoke and explained to us how things really went in the council. i would simply point out that three positions were compared: the british position, the position of the so-called franco-german directory and the position of the community institutions. i think it was good for all of us, and especially for each of our countries, that the community institutions prevailed this time, that they made sure that the agreement was not limited to 17 euro-zone countries, but extended as far as possible. but the basic problem remains, and i ask you to take full responsibility for saying "enough!" to the franco-german directory in every place! i say this not because i have any claim to my country, italy, but because i think it is important that we all claim the right role for europe. i am aware that the success of the european project depends on the 27 countries and the guarantee given to them by the community institutions. i would therefore ask you to remember, at all times and in all places, that the right approach is not to impose but to propose, and that this approach must always be defended by ensuring that each one takes responsibility for himself, but the ultimate responsibility must be shared by all.
mr president, mr van rompuy, mr barroso, the european union is a community of law, so form cannot be separated from substance: form is substance! this means that using an intergovernmental treaty to establish a fiscal compact is a very complex operation legally and technically, indeed, in fact, impossible. the comparison with schengen and prüm is not valid, because those matters were not regulated by the treaties. the truth is that we are at this point because the premise was wrong, namely that a reform of the treaties was both necessary and possible. we must now find a way out, avoid the risk of renationalising community powers, preserve the eu's legal order, avoid duplication and of course correct a wrong and inadequate economic policy. this parliament will be watching closely, ready to contribute to the solution of this incredible mess, by bringing the process started back to the european council on the lines of community law, which are the only possible foundations for building a real fiscal union.
mr president, an agreement by the 26 is a clear sign of unity and courage in dealing with the crisis of confidence in the euro. of course, discipline and rigour are needed, but also solidarity and social responsibility, to reassure european citizens and businesses. president barroso was therefore right to reiterate these concepts and to relaunch the stability bonds, because we cannot but also, or above all, focus on growth and development, which are essential ingredients for giving a concrete response to the economic crisis and unemployment. the only regret i have is that britain has confirmed de gaulle's motto that britain is joining the european union with the sole intention of slowing down or boycotting the common european project. it is a pity that his 'no' was not so much in the name of the british people as in the name of the financial interests of the city.
in writing. mr van rompuy, mr barroso, the council meeting last week was not a failure, nor was it a great success. however, the dissent of one country was more significant than the agreement of 26 others. i think it is important to emphasize this aspect more strongly. important decisions have been taken, and finally, after months of inactivity, policy has acted, recognizing the need for some measures which this parliament has been calling for for months. but now it's time to put them into practice. the emphasis is on fiscal and budgetary discipline and control by the community institutions. that is right, we must return to having rules of budgetary discipline and procedures must be automatic. i have noticed, however, that the european parliament is hardly ever mentioned, and i hope that in the work of the coming weeks we can make a change. however, we cannot forget growth, because if we are going to impose strict rules on public budgets, demanding also rigorous structural reforms, we must at the same time implement measures for growth. we must also consider eurobonds, in the various forms in which they have been proposed, and i hope that in the near future they will be able to be part of the package.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the will of the people is often ignored in europe, and we have seen the pressure on greece to give up the idea of holding a referendum. in spain the elections took place, but in italy, unfortunately, they did not. in any case, since things change after the elections, otherwise there would be no point in doing so, i think it is appropriate to postpone this. perhaps the new spanish government, which has been elected in a free and democratic election, will confirm the name or perhaps not, and that is a sign of democracy.
madam president, following the earthquake that struck the region of murcia in spain last may and the floods that hit the venetian regions in late october and early november 2010, the affected states have applied for access to the eu solidarity fund. in this case, as regards the veneto region, a region in my country, italy, the commission has recognised as eligible eur 676.357 million in direct damage, against which aid from the solidarity fund of eur 17 million is proposed. these are in addition to the 21 proposed for spain, for a total budget transfer of eur 37.9 million. i welcome this demonstration of solidarity by the european union, which has once again mobilised in the interests of a member state - in this case my own country - and of a region, veneto, to which i am particularly personally attached and which initiated the investigation and is now the beneficiary of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund decided by the commission. in addition to this financial commitment, the entire italian delegation gave its full support to the people of veneto, to whom we renew our message of solidarity and closeness as needed.
madam president, i voted for this proposal for a directive with great conviction. i think the pattern that marked today's landing is worth noting. this document has been a commitment of the commission, parliament and the council since 2004, and in the years since there have been moments of stop and go, motivated by the resistance of many states who feared the invasion and the subtraction of competences in a very delicate area such as criminal procedural law. i believe that this step today is a step forward, not as bold as the one proposed by the commission in 2004, but significant, appreciated and desirable for the future development of the road map, which was also set out in the stockholm programme voted in 2009.
madam president, i wholeheartedly support the initiative to strengthen the area of rights of the defence in criminal proceedings within the european union, which is why my country has actively cooperated within the council to secure the rapid adoption of the instrument. the aim of the directive is to lay down rules on the right of suspects and accused persons to be informed of their rights and of the charges against them in criminal proceedings. the framework of the directive should apply to anyone who is informed by the competent authorities of a member state that he is under investigation or charged until the proceedings are concluded. the general right of all suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings is to be informed, orally or in writing, of the relevant procedural rights as soon as possible after the commencement of the proceedings. the commission has also proposed that the council and the european parliament should be given the opportunity to discuss the proposal with the council and the european parliament.
madam president, i voted in favour of this directive, which implements measures necessary to protect the lives and freedoms of victims of crime. here 's an example . according to some estimates, there are about one hundred thousand women in europe who are covered by protection orders. however, the effectiveness of this measure is currently limited to the territory where they have been adopted or where they live, which results in a legislative vacuum that this directive fills by mutual recognition of decisions on protection measures in the context of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the instrument will be introduced in the near future to ensure that a protection order issued in one country is automatically recognised in the member states to which the victim travels. this is a very important achievement, which is helping to build an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union, as provided for in the treaty.
madam president, i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive. the text, drawn up thanks to the work of mrs barrio and mrs lópez, is certainly worthwhile, as mr baldassarre has already mentioned, because the proposal for a directive introduces a tool designed to guarantee european protection for the safety of everyone. this instrument will be particularly useful for women, who are very often threatened by acts of violence and protected by means of instruments made available by each member state. from now on, there will be no longer any limitation on the geographical boundary of the member state, but these people - women in particular - will be able to be and feel secure in every part of the european union. the act adopted today by a unanimous vote represents a significant step forward in the field of judicial cooperation, although i am convinced that more can be done in the future.
madam president, italy is a co-sponsor of the proposal and has always worked with the presidency to achieve, already under the spanish presidency, a rapid adoption of this instrument. at that time, the concerns were focused on the question of the legal basis and scope of the directive, since it should have been limited to the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, according to a restrictive interpretation given by the commission. the final compromise proposal clearly redefining the boundaries between criminal and civil matters, to limit the scope of the directive to only measures issued in the context of criminal proceedings is, in my view, also better than the previous compromise solutions. this is also in view of the fact that, in parallel with the criminal law, work is already under way on the corresponding proposal for a regulation on protection measures in the civil field. that is why i gave a very strong opinion in favour of the directive this morning.
madam president, i supported mrs mathieu's report, convinced that immigration to europe represents a great opportunity, but also requires intelligent and fair management. without effective action, the labour market would be divided and a pool of low-cost workers would jeopardise the achievements of the european social model. i therefore believe that this measure will help to prevent and combat such risks by creating a level playing field between national citizens and citizens from third countries. i am referring, for example, to access to the various counselling services that the host country provides. i am also pleased with the compromises reached on access to education and training and the right to portability, transferability, pensions and accrued pension rights, which will no longer be conditional on the existence or absence of bilateral agreements between states.
madam president, i am very pleased that mr lehne's report has been adopted, which finally allows very small businesses to be freed from unnecessary and often incomprehensible budgetary obligations, allowing each of them to save on average eur 1 000 a year and to reduce their bureaucratic burdens by 25%. it is unnecessary and disproportionate to subject very small enterprises, with only local or at most regional commercial activity, to the same financial reporting obligations as larger enterprises. unfortunately, because of a blocking minority of some member states, it took over two years for the council to approve this measure! i really hope that this attitude of the council will end and that it will not always be necessary to have a crisis to make the transition from good proposals to action when it comes to making life easier for small businesses, which are a major engine for growth in europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of this legislative proposal because, in the face of the well-known financial crisis which has led to social and economic tensions throughout the world, several member states are facing budgetary constraints which could prevent them from meeting their commitments in the cofinanced financial programmes. the report therefore recommends temporarily increasing the maximum rate of union co-financing for ongoing programmes, which would allow member states receiving support from the european financial stabilisation mechanism to continue to receive aid without additional commitment appropriations. these countries - such as greece, ireland, portugal, latvia and romania - could finally benefit from intervention that would speed up their exit from the crisis, at least in some key sectors of their economies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because in these difficult times a free and fair trading system, based on the principles of reciprocity and harmonization, in a strengthened multilateral framework, is a fundamental condition for development. reduction of tariffs, non-tariff barriers and protectionism still too widespread, not only in emerging countries these are the factors which represent the most serious obstacles to the creation of an effective international trading system: europe must be more aware of its role and must put its democratic, social and open community political model at the service of stronger multilateral cooperation and balanced, sustainable bilateral agreements which respect civil and social rights; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such an approach will benefit our producers, workers and entrepreneurs, and also those who look to europe as a reference point for more freedom and social justice in the world.
mr president, open, free and fair trade is an essential element in ensuring and maintaining a level playing field between european businesses. however, both companies and trade analysts, as well as the european commission, have identified non-tariff barriers as the main obstacle to free access to partner countries' markets. trade restrictions of this kind, being very technical in nature, are sometimes misused and are very difficult to remove. for this reason, close cooperation with the wto and other trade organizations could be a good starting point for overcoming these obstacles. the european union must take a very active approach to this issue, seeking to remove the obstacles to the completion of the single market and making it a priority of the new trade policy in the framework of the 2020 strategy. businesses and development are asking us to do this.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of the iter project in the context of the european union, a suitable financing programme is necessary, including any additional financing. considering it essential to amend the interinstitutional agreement with regard to the multiannual financial framework in order to provide the additional appropriations required for the iter project in the period 2012-2013, i express my favourable opinion on this resolution.
in writing. - the adoption of this report is necessary from a procedural point of view for the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund in favour of the people affected by the floods in my region, veneto, a year ago. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the operation. i therefore voted in favour of the jedrzejewska report.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i fully agree with the rapporteur on the urgency with which assistance must be provided to the populations affected by recent natural disasters. we must not waste time approving the allocation of the solidarity fund, because 13 months must already have elapsed since the events took place.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given that the purpose of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) is to restore infrastructure and that as a refinancing instrument it cannot be used to compensate for damage suffered by private individuals, and given the direct damage suffered in the region of murcia (spain) and veneto (italy), i agree with the proposal to finance the identified needs through the reallocation of funds from the rural development programmes, and therefore i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − following the earthquake that hit the murcia region in spain last may and the floods that hit the veneto region in late october and early november 2010, the affected states in question applied for access to the eu solidarity fund. in the present case, as regards the veneto region, the commission has recognised as eligible direct damage of eur 676,357 for which aid from the solidarity fund of eur 17 million is proposed. these are in addition to the 21 million proposed for spain, for a total budget transfer of eur 37.9 million. i welcome this demonstration of solidarity by the european union, which has once again mobilised in the interests of one of its member states, in this case my own country, which had initiated the investigation and is now the beneficiary of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund decided by the commission. the support of the entire italian delegation is overwhelming.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has supported, as i have, the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the veneto region. the flooding that hit not only my region, but also other areas of italy in late october and early november 2011, was particularly disastrous for people and businesses, severely damaged. the figure proposed by the european commission, eur 16.908 million, will cover at least a small part of the costs foreseen for the reconstruction of the affected areas and their economic and productive revival. i would like to express my satisfaction at this positive result, which is an important signal from the commission and parliament to the demands coming from areas affected by negative catastrophes, especially in a period of deep economic and financial crisis. i hope that in future we will be able to assess the situation more rapidly and, as a result, to mobilise funds for the areas in difficulty. in future it should be possible to complete the actual disbursement of funds in a shorter time.
in writing. - an economic contribution to help those affected by the tragic flooding in veneto in november 2010, that is what we voted for today. the european parliament, by a large majority, approved the eur 16.9 million aid for flood-stricken veneto, demonstrating that european solidarity is not just in words but also in deeds. it is clear that despite the amount provided for in the fund's rules, we are still far from covering the real costs of rebuilding infrastructure, housing and relief services. the italian state had estimated direct damage for the actual remediation of the affected areas at eur 3,717 million. i would not like to dwell on the figures but i would like to point out that in my province, padua, alone, we had: 3 500 people displaced, 12 communes seriously damaged, 8 floods and 6 breakage of dikes, for a total area affected by flooding of 72 square kilometres. i conclude by expressing my hope that the path of solidarity and cooperation will converge more effectively to ensure the necessary financial support that europe must provide to all member states in the event of disasters.
in writing. - the decision taken by parliament to allocate the european union solidarity fund for territories affected by natural disasters is one i fully appreciate. the flood that hit the veneto region between 31 october and 2 november 2010 caused considerable damage to the population and to the entire social and economic fabric of the territory. many infrastructures have been severely damaged, as have small and medium-sized enterprises, which in the north-east of italy represent the main productive force of the territory. the 17 million that the european union will give to help veneto is a real breath of fresh air for the citizens of venice who, even psychologically, are struggling to overcome the memory of those tragic days. the aid also provided for the spanish area of lorca, which was struck by two violent earthquakes, is a concrete demonstration of the european union's closeness to the people affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - i believe that there is no time to lose and i therefore hope that the böge report will be adopted without amendments. the figures that will be allocated, although they will not cover the full damage caused by the recent disasters in italy and spain, are a vital resource to enable the populations to resume their activities and their lives.
in writing. - i am pleased that today's vote finally gave the green light to the allocation of some €17 million for the damage caused by the floods in veneto last autumn 2010. the european union solidarity fund can certainly be a useful instrument to help bring about the full recovery of these hard-hit areas. i also hope that tuscany and liguria, which were also hit by tragic floods last month, will soon be able to access this important source of european funding.
in writing. - italy and spain have asked the eu to mobilise the european solidarity fund for natural disasters caused by the heavy rains and floods in veneto and the earthquake in the murcia area last may, respectively. the vote in favour by myself and parliament is almost a foregone conclusion, given the gravity of the situation and the need for rapid action. however, in the light of the appropriations granted by the commission, only 38 million euro (21 for spain and 17 for italy) i believe that more could have been done for the people and for the reconstruction of the affected areas.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given that the purpose of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) is to restore infrastructure and given the damage caused by the earthquake of 11 may 2011 in the region of murcia and the torrential rains that hit the north-eastern region of veneto from 31 october to 2 november 2010, i am voting in favour of the solidarity fund being mobilised for the two countries concerned.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this proposal. the torrential rains of last winter caused economic damage to the veneto region of almost 4 billion euros. although not provided for in the 2011 budget, it is right that the european parliament should approve funding for that territory. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund will provide the affected populations with a contribution of almost eur 17 million for reconstruction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this procedure because it allows the release of eur 38 million of community aid from the european solidarity fund to be allocated to spain and italy to repair the damage caused by the natural disasters of last year. in my country in particular, the heavy rains in late october and early november 2010 caused severe flooding, especially in the veneto region. the effects of the rain were then compounded by a warm mediterranean wind, the scirocco, which melted snow in nearby mountains causing severe damage to road networks and infrastructure, agriculture, farms and homes. the funds were raised through a joint commitment to use unspent funds for rural development, all thanks to a budgetary adjustment.
in writing. − following the natural disasters that hit the veneto region in italy, which was devastated by flooding in autumn 2010, and murcia in spain, which was hit by an earthquake last may, the states concerned asked for access to the european union solidarity fund, which was granted following an investigation evaluated by the commission, as a contribution to the costs incurred by the state affected by the event to cope with emergency interventions. as regards the veneto region, my region, the proposed aid from the solidarity fund is eur 16.9 million, in addition to the eur 21 million proposed for spain, for a total budget of eur 37.9 million. i welcome this demonstration of solidarity by the european union, which has once again shown that it is capable of doing something concrete for its citizens. the support and closeness shown by the italian delegation was fundamental in dealing with such a difficult situation.
in writing. − the floods that hit northern italy, and especially veneto, in november 2010 caused damage of over eur 600 million. but more than economic losses, the disaster has caused suffering, distress and fear among the population. the disaster affected individuals, families, businesses and infrastructure: damage was recorded to private property, vital infrastructure (such as the a4 motorway), businesses, agriculture and the cultural heritage concentrated in the bacchiglione river basin. as a result of the flooding, as many as 40,000 businesses, employing some 250,000 people, were at risk of closing. with today's vote, which activates the solidarity fund, the european parliament is giving a concrete and tangible signal to veneto. the 17 million euros in aid will be used to improve the living conditions of the people affected by this terrible natural event.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for workers in the building sector in trentino-alto adige/südtirol. there is no sector that has not been affected by the financial crisis, but there are certain categories of workers who have suffered the most. in particular, the construction sector accounts for 15% of the gdp of the trentino-alto adige region, employing about 8% of the workers in the autonomous province of trento and about 8.6% of the workers in the autonomous province of bolzano. in the latter, between 2009 and 2010, unemployment increased by 43% and in the province of trento by 117% . the egf is an important european policy instrument set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the organisation of world trade. in this time of crisis, the european union must not lose its role and must transmit confidence to citizens and member states through the instruments of support. i hope therefore that an agreement will be reached to maintain the fund until 2020.
in writing. - as regards the practice under consideration, the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund concerns more than 600 redundancies, of which 528 were eligible for assistance, in 323 enterprises in the building sector. the commission services gave a positive assessment to the request for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, a community instrument to help those who are believed to have lost their jobs as a result of competition caused by the distortive dynamics of globalisation. the criteria for mobilising the fund have been positively assessed by the commission. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs matera's report because i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a timely and necessary response to the increasingly serious problem of unemployment and the reintegration of people who have lost their jobs into the labour market. the economic crisis which has unfortunately been accompanying the world and european economies for the last three years has hit a highly productive and skilled area such as trentino-alto adige. in particular, italy's application for 643 redundancies, of which 528 were eligible for assistance from the egf, fulfilled the eligibility conditions laid down in the egf regulation. i am convinced that the management of this fund, not only in terms of assistance but also in terms of training and reintegration into the labour market, is the best way forward to deal with the effects of the severe crisis which is still continuing today.
in writing. − despite the economic crisis, i believe it is necessary for the european union to continue to finance those sectors and those companies, which are seeking aid, which fall within the parameters for the transposition of loans. finally, it is time for a globalisation adjustment fund to help small italian businesses in trentino alto adige. i hope that my vote in favour will also mean that the fund, which is almost eur 4 million, will be allocated. this would save the jobs of more than 500 workers and therefore of as many families. which is why i think everyone should vote for it.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and having regard to the importance of mobilising the egf in favour of italy in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, i shall vote in favour of the following proposal for a decision.
in writing. − with this vote italy will receive €3.9 million in eu aid for construction workers made redundant as a result of the international crisis. the funds will now be used to help find new jobs for the 528 workers made redundant by 323 construction companies in the trentino-alto adige/südtirol region.
in writing. − the globalisation adjustment fund instrument is often activated to deal with redundancies, redundancies and difficult working situations. the reintegration of individual workers who have been made redundant into the labour market must be supported. the global economic crisis has not spared even one of italy's most prosperous regions, trentino alto adige. the construction sector in italy, as in other eu countries, has suffered the most serious consequences: the sector experienced in 2011 the worst season since the italian economic boom of the 1960s. in order to support the reintegration of workers and to revive the construction sector, i voted in favour of the parliamentary initiative.
in writing. − the european union is a composite, multilingual and multicultural society, built around the four fundamental freedoms, including freedom of movement, which the union guarantees its citizens. in view of this, it is important that anyone suspected or accused of a crime within the union is informed immediately of his or her rights and of any charges against him or her in a language that he or she understands. at present, european citizens are not guaranteed full information. i therefore voted in favour of the directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings, because i believe it is essential to guarantee this right to anyone accused or suspected of a crime throughout the proceedings, investigations and any appeals.
in writing. - mr president, the reluctance of the member states to harmonize certain aspects of their respective systems of procedural law does not benefit either the member states themselves or, above all, the citizens of europe. the commission's 'step by step' approach is proving successful. however, i believe that the european parliament should raise its voice to the council in order to try to speed up the adoption of the other directives in this area. to have to talk in 2011 about rules on the right of suspects or accused persons to be informed of their rights and the charge in criminal proceedings within the member states of the european union seems to me to be something anachronistic, to say the least.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the sippel report, which aims to establish common minimum standards for the right to information in criminal proceedings in the european union: defendants and the accused have the right to be informed of their rights and this information must be explained in accessible, simple language and in a language that the defendant understands! specific information should also be provided in writing in the event of deprivation of liberty by the competent authorities of the member states during criminal proceedings. finally, i agree with the inclusion in the report, alongside the general right to be informed about procedural rights, of two specific rights: the right to information on the charge and the right of access to the file, unless there is a serious risk to the life of another person or the possibility of serious harm to the internal security of the member state. this directive will improve the rights of suspects and accused persons by ensuring that they receive timely information on their rights.
in writing. - i am pleased to support this report on the right to information in criminal proceedings. if we are to guarantee common minimum standards in the present criminal proceedings and thus equality before the law and justice in every european court, then i believe that this act is of paramount importance. finally, this report achieves a minimum standard of information in criminal proceedings and through this new principle we can aim to ensure the protection of the fundamental rights of all citizens of the european union, which are then the basis of our law. i fully agree with the rapporteur on the importance of continuing to work closely together in order to harmonise the basic aspects of our legal procedures. i would like to congratulate you on your excellent work.
in writing. − the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters requires that member states have mutual trust in their criminal justice systems. to ensure this, defendants should be fully informed of the proceedings concerning them. i agree with the report, especially in the part where it stresses the importance of ensuring that, when providing information in accordance with the directive, the respondent or accused person is provided, if necessary, with translation and interpretation in a language he or she understands, in accordance with the rules laid down in directive 2010/64/eu.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this report is motivated by the rapid change in a condition which may be a limit for suspects and accused persons who are in other countries of the union. the fact that there can be common rules to simplify the understanding of citizens' rights in criminal matters can only be of benefit and increase the chances that those who are accused also have a greater guarantee of being informed and can actually exercise their right to a defence.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the need to establish common minimum standards for the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union would ensure better recognition of fundamental rights for eu citizens and would also help to overcome the difficulties encountered in implementing the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters due to a lack of trust between authorities. the following proposal aims at greater collaboration in addition to legislative standardisation through a phased approach as provided for in the roadmap adopted on 30 november 2009. i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive in order to ensure that the right to information is effectively granted.
in writing. - the report by mr sippel on the right to information in criminal proceedings was voted on in plenary today. the multiple branches of the right to information are a fundamental element for the effective protection of the rights of citizens directly or potentially involved. the european union is working towards more detailed and uniform procedural rules in this area. the right to information in criminal proceedings is intended to ensure that the accused or the defendant is aware of the charges against him or her or of the investigations being carried out against him or her, that he or she has the right to interpretation and to communicate with his or her family members, and also provides for the introduction of sound guarantees in the application of security or preventive measures so that the right of defence, exercised through the legal prosecutor, can be exercised to the best of his or her ability by virtue of the principle of culpability. it was also equally clear that the regulation of the european arrest warrant must be further developed with regard to the rights of the persons involved and the limits of the judicial authority. the european parliament considers that intergovernmental and interinstitutional cooperation is necessary in order to ensure that the provisions on the right to information in criminal proceedings, in order to better protect the suspected offender, can be extended and clarified where there are deficiencies or contradictions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr sippel on the right to information in criminal proceedings. i think it is right that under the new legislation, those who are being investigated for a crime within the european union will have to be informed of their rights in a language they understand: this measure aims to ensure that all eu countries provide anyone arrested or subject to a european arrest warrant with a communication on their fundamental rights in the course of criminal proceedings. the establishment of common minimum standards in criminal proceedings is a guarantee for a better recognition of the fundamental rights of european citizens and also helps to overcome those limitations and difficulties which may arise between different judicial authorities in implementing the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that mr otbo fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and following a careful analysis of his diligent work as a member of the court, i express my favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr otbo as a member of the court of auditors, considering that he is one of the most authoritative persons to fill that role.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that juan-francisco corona fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, nevertheless, in order to ascertain his competence as a member of the court of auditors, i express my opinion that the vote on the council's proposal to appoint juan-francisco corona as a member of the court of auditors should be postponed.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that mr ville itälä fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and following a careful analysis of his diligent work as a member of the court of auditors, i express my favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr ville itälä as a member of the court of auditors, considering that he is one of the most authoritative persons to fill this role.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that mr russo fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and following a careful analysis of his diligent work as a member of the court, i express my favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr russo as a member of the court of auditors, considering that he is one of the most authoritative and distinguished persons to hold the post.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i am therefore happy to welcome dr pietro russo, whom i have had the opportunity to meet on several occasions. as a former adviser to the court of auditors in italy and with a great deal of international experience behind him, i am sure that dr russo will make an excellent member of the european court of auditors, especially with his experience in monitoring the spending of regional development funds. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank your predecessor, professor massimo vari, who was called upon to perform the difficult task of under-secretary of state for economic development in a professional capacity. i would like to thank mr varí for the work he has done in recent years at the european court of auditors, which i have had the opportunity to appreciate firsthand in my role as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, and also to express my personal and heartfelt wishes for his new 'adventure'.
in writing. - it is with great satisfaction that we voted for pietro russo as a member of the european court of auditors. this is a return visa for someone who has already worked for the union. the new member has a very respectable record: in 1991 he was appointed national expert at the european court of auditors; in 1993 he became chief of staff of the italian component of the court of auditors, working as an auditor of the erdf funds. from 2003 to 2006, he returned to the italian court of auditors as a member of the central audit committee on the management of the state administration. in 2009 he was appointed by the atlantic council of nato as a member of the international college of nato auditors. in short, it is an international profile and a first-class competence. that is why i supported his candidacy in parliament today.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that mr vítor manuel da silva caldeira fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and following a careful analysis of his diligent work as a member of the court of auditors, i express my favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr vítor manuel da silva caldeira as a member of the court of auditors, considering that he is one of the most authoritative persons to hold the post.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that mr wessberg fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and following a careful analysis of his diligent work as a member of the court of auditors, i express my favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr wessberg as a member of the court of auditors, considering that he is one of the most authoritative persons to hold the post.
in writing. - mr president, the legislative vacuum at eu level in protecting victims of crime from further attacks, once the victims had crossed the border of the member state of origin, was a serious and unacceptable fact in a united europe. the european union is not just a single market and economic interests, as this report shows. the solutions contained in the proposal will allow victims of aggression to finally enjoy a level of protection similar to that enjoyed in the member states which had granted the measures. i fully agree with the report by mrs barrio and mrs lópez, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the european protection order is going to fill a major legislative gap for the protection of victims who decide to settle in a member state other than their own. at present all member states have a legislative apparatus with measures to protect life, physical, mental or sexual integrity and the protection of victims who have suffered various forms of abuse. i also believe that in the broader context of the stockholm programme, the adoption of this important european directive can have a threefold objective: (1) to prevent a new offence being committed against the victim in the member state where the victim intends to settle; (2) to claim in the member state to which the victim is travelling a level of protection and protection which is equivalent to or higher than that of the member state which granted the measures; (3) to prevent the victim from being subjected to any form of discrimination which might further aggravate his already vulnerable situation.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the rapporteur has explained in detail and in detail the changes to parliament's position at first reading. it was essential to take account of the new context created by the presentation by the commission on 18 may 2011 of a legislative package aimed at strengthening the rights of victims in the european union and containing a proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters.
in writing. - i support this directive on the european protection order, believing firmly in our union and therefore also in the effective help we must give to our citizens. the proposal shows that there is a collaboration to prevent the recurrence of unpleasant situations which have characterized the past and endangered the dignity, mental or physical health, personal freedom or sexual integrity of many citizens. preventing these situations will be our objective.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given that this directive focuses on protection measures taken in criminal matters and can therefore strengthen the rights of victims in the european union, i am voting in favour of the proposal in question.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleagues jimenez-becerril barrio and romero lópez on the excellent work they have done. under the rules approved today, victims of crime who are eligible for protection and who are resident in one member state will also be able to benefit from it in other eu countries. the european protection order (epo) directive, already agreed with national governments, will allow anyone who enjoys protection in one european country to get the same protection even if they move to another eu country. in short, we will facilitate the movement of victims and hinder the movement of their aggressors. protection will have no borders now. there are thousands of victims who will now be free to live in peace. i would remind you that the ope for criminal proceedings will be supplemented by separate legislation covering civil matters. to this end, the european commission proposed in may a regulation on mutual recognition of protection under civil law, which will be adopted by parliament and the council. the combination of the two instruments should cover the widest possible range of victim protection measures in the different member states.
in writing. − under the rules adopted today, victims of protected crimes resident in one member state will be able to enjoy the same special treatment in other eu countries. this decision is all the more important for european women, as the measures are aimed primarily at protecting victims of crimes such as violence, harassment, kidnapping, stalking or attempted murder. the member states will now have three years to transpose this directive into their national law and finally give their citizens protection that can be complete and 360 degrees.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the european protection order is a key step towards a european area of justice. the text approved today will allow victims of crime who have been granted protection under the law of one member state to apply for the same protection in another member state. these laws, already approved by national governments, are designed to protect victims of gender-based violence, harassment, kidnapping, stalking or attempted murder. measures to protect victims of crime already exist in all member states, but they cease to have effect if the victim moves to another country. the european protection order will therefore enable a person who is protected in one member state of the union to obtain protection in all member states.
in writing. - i too have decided to support this report on the single procedure for applying for residence and work permits, as i believe it is very useful in the pursuit of a common immigration policy, which is due to be adopted next year. this will certainly make it easier to facilitate legal immigration, but much more effort is needed to achieve a sustainable and lasting growth standard through simplified procedures, transparency of immigrant rights, the fight against illegal immigration and the guarantee of bureaucratic procedures. i very much appreciated the point on access to education and training for the world of work. the new document now provides, as agreed, for workers from third countries to be registered in an appropriate way so that they can be reflected in the labour market.
in writing. - i agree with the motion for a resolution, the council's position at first reading is acceptable. i also agree with the rapporteur when she points to the shortage of labour due to the demographic decline as one of the main challenges of our time. the directive is necessary to respond exactly to this need for immigrant workers, without, of course, affecting the key principles related to the control of legal immigration.
in writing. i would like to express my negative vote on this recommendation, since the resolution adopted seems to me to fail to take account of certain essential needs. the single procedure, which implies a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work within the european union, risks not giving the member states the right guarantees and protection, leading to easier circumvention of access controls and thus risking a massive and indiscriminate influx of people into europe, without all of them having the necessary guarantee of having, and above all maintaining, employment and adequate means of subsistence.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the adoption of this directive because i support the possibility of issuing a european permit allowing third country nationals to reside and work in the territory. the compromise prepared by the presidency to overcome the deadlock on the identification of 'targeted subjects', presented in april 2009, was not passed because it was not supported by unanimity. so the text was taken up again and the changes made were improvements over the original. the codecision procedure has enabled agreement to be reached on a number of issues which were problematic, especially for some delegations.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in order to gradually establish an area of freedom, security and justice, the directive provides for the adoption of measures in the fields of asylum, immigration and the safeguarding of the rights of thirdcountry nationals. the aim is to achieve harmonisation of national legislation on the conditions of admission and residence of third-country nationals. considering that it is necessary to ensure fair treatment of third-country nationals legally resident in the territory of the member states and a more effective integration policy aimed at guaranteeing them rights and obligations similar to those of citizens of the european union, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − with this vote, non-eu workers legally working in the eu will have rights similar to those of europeans with regard to working conditions, pensions, social security and access to public services. this directive will allow non-community workers to obtain work and residence permits through a single procedure. now that a new milestone has been set on the path of legal immigration, it is necessary to move forward to adjust immigration flows to the needs of the european labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the single application procedure for a single residence permit because i believe it is essential to consider immigration as a resource to be protected and regulated. i support this measure and believe that it can be a useful tool to prevent and combat the many risks associated with this area. i found the provisions on access to counselling services, which is protected as a right of third country nationals on an equal footing with national citizens, interesting. i support the measures envisaged on access to education and training and the solutions adopted on pensions. i believe that the adoption of this proposal is an important step towards the development of a much-needed single european immigration policy for our europe, which i hope will be achieved in 2012 as planned.
in writing. − non-eu citizens who are driven to come to europe with the dream of a stable job that can guarantee their personal and family well-being are an asset for the european union. those who meet these requirements and work on a contract basis are entitled to a residence permit. european citizens are reluctant to take up certain jobs, which are considered humble and for which they are not paid adequately. in this context, the arrival of labour from non-european countries is an opportunity both for the newcomers and for the social fabric of those who host them. today's vote is the first step towards a single application procedure for residence and work permits, which will harmonise national laws and regulations.
in writing. - i think it is right that parliament should approve the council's position at first reading. mr rivellini rightly emphasizes in his report the importance of the mediterranean in the world, with its considerable fish resources. i am convinced that this regulation will be a very important instrument for safeguarding biodiversity, also in view of the enormous traffic of ships that ply the mediterranean waters.
in writing. − the new provisions amending the regulation on fishing in the area of application of the general fisheries commission agreement in the mediterranean have received my favourable vote because they aim to transpose the provisions of the gfcm into european law. the agreements on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries, fisheries resources and all things fisheries of the 23 countries plus the eu, which are part of the commission, will be able to be transposed directly by the member states, which will consequently be able to adapt to the new recommendations from time to time. although it is necessary to pay attention to what the gpm commission will promote, i consider the text to be another step forward towards legislative simplification.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation set up under article xiv of the fao constitution, which lays down the rules for the application of measures for the conservation, management, enhancement and monitoring of fisheries and aquaculture. it should also be borne in mind that the content and obligations of the recommendations adopted by the gfcm are often incompatible with community legislation adopted in the field of fisheries and aquaculture. in order to make the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean a more autonomous body with a margin of decision-making power, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation adopted today, for which i have been appointed rapporteur, aims to incorporate certain recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) into a single community legislative act. the implementation of these recommendations is essential to ensure the biodiversity of the mediterranean and the sustainable management of its fisheries resources and to prevent the mediterranean from becoming a dead sea. let me briefly summarise the main recommendations which have been adopted today: certain restrictions on fishing within the gulf of lion will be imposed; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. the mediterranean represents a very small part of our planet, roughly 1 percent of its seas, but it is extremely rich. half of all european fishing vessels operate in the mediterranean, and 60% of all work and employment in the fisheries sector is in the mediterranean. therefore, a healthy ecological status of this important sea basin and the promotion of its sustainable development requires a series of measures for the conservation and management of marine biological resources.
in writing. - italy has always attached great importance to the general commission for fisheries in the mediterranean, as is shown by the fact that, in institutional positions, we hold the first vice-presidency of this commission. italy has recently also taken over the chairmanship of the scientific committee. the regulation under review is intended to transpose into european law the provisions of the cgpm which are binding but not self-enforcing. the proposal is structured in such a way that the recommendations in question can be transposed by a single legislative act, to which future recommendations may be added by amendments to the same. the content and obligations of the recommendations adopted by the mediterranean commission are often already covered by eu legislation, and therefore only the aspects not covered by it and, where appropriate, any reporting obligations need to be transposed. since technical measures in the fisheries sector have a major impact on the economic and social situation of important, albeit limited, areas and on the income of thousands of families, i believe that parliament should be able to monitor the commission's work (albeit ex post and in extremis).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i shared its spirit from the outset. while it is true that companies, regardless of their size, need to prepare financial statements for tax purposes, statistical purposes, assessment of various management aspects and easier presentation in the case of relations with banks, it is also true that the complexity of certain accounting rules represents a cost, in terms of time and money, which has a greater impact on micro-entities than on large companies. i understand that some member states wanted to change the thresholds for access to this exemption, and i congratulate the rapporteur on having succeeded in mediating without losing the spirit of the original: the idea is to reduce bureaucratic constraints and to let the small and micro entrepreneurs do their jobs, to innovate and to get back to producing wealth and prosperity.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the amendment of the directive in question, since it seeks to solve one of the problems which unfortunately beset businesses, including those in our own territory, namely the administrative and bureaucratic costs which slow down and unnecessarily complicate business activity. i therefore welcome a proposal to reduce such burdens on businesses and to simplify the legislation concerned.
in writing. - i agree with the text proposed by mr lehne. the amendment calling for the committee to report on the situation of micro-entities is particularly important. this exchange of information and monitoring will enable us to have a more complete picture of the number of enterprises covered by the size criteria and the problems to be solved in this respect.
in writing. - the report by mr lehne on the annual accounts of companies classified as micro-entities sets out the characteristics of those smaller and therefore more numerous companies in order to exempt them from annual budgetary obligations. this exemption results in enormous net savings and, above all, makes the expenditure on financial information charges proportionate. until now all companies, large and small, have been subject to the same accounting rules, which i do not think is fair given the waste and effort that proportionately smaller companies have had to bear. my vote in favour is therefore a vote for savings and for the right proportionality of treatment.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that reducing administrative burdens leads to a boost for the european economy and that this requires a strong common commitment to reduce administrative burdens within the european union. one of the priority areas for action to reduce the administrative burden on businesses in the union is micro-entities, which are often subject to the same reporting obligations as larger businesses. since these rules create a burden for micro-entities that is disproportionate to their size, it should be possible to exempt them from the obligation to draw up annual accounts, and i therefore vote in favour of this.
in writing. - the report by mr klaus heiner lehn was voted on today in plenary. micro-entities are currently still subject to the same rules as larger enterprises. the complex financial reporting rules applied to them are not proportionate to their specific accounting needs and create unnecessary financial burdens. in 2009, the commission therefore put forward a legislative proposal to exempt such enterprises from budgetary obligations. the european commission estimates the potential savings of the proposal at eur 6.3 billion. after difficult and lengthy negotiations in the council, a compromise was reached which, while maintaining certain accounting obligations, allows exemption from budgetary obligations for undertakings which meet the following criteria: (a) a total budget of not more than eur 350 000; (b) a net turnover of not more than eur 700 000; (c) a number of employees not exceeding 10.
in writing. - i supported mr lehne's report on the annual accounts for micro-entities because i have always maintained that small and mediumsized enterprises are a key sector of the european union, a sector which contributes to economic growth every day. i am convinced that an integrated approach at european level is essential in this respect and that it is also appropriate to combat excessive bureaucracy on the part of small businesses. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that micro-enterprises cannot have the same financial reporting obligations as large enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of a new railway line. after more than two years of negotiations, we have come to this proposal, which would save companies on average eur 1 000 each per year, for a total of eur 6.3 billion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr lehne, which aims to reduce the financial obligations of micro-entities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. after lengthy negotiations, a compromise was reached which allows exemption from budgetary obligations for companies with a total budget of less than eur 350 000, a net turnover of less than eur 700 000 and fewer than 10 employees.
in writing. - i abstained because the measure concerns a sensitive subject on which it is intended to act with effects which do not seem to be entirely clear, despite what is stated in the report. increasing the co-financing rate for projects in some countries will inevitably lead to a decrease in the total number of projects eligible for funding under the european fund for rural development. i do not know what effect such a measure will have on the management of the fund in the countries concerned and on the quality of the effects the projects will produce, so i have abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. as a consequence of the financial and budgetary crisis, some member states will face budgetary constraints which could prevent them from meeting commitments made under co-financed programmes (community and cohesion funds, eafrd, european fisheries fund). in particular, in relation to the eafrd, many states could lose funding if they do not provide proof of the expenditure of the corresponding national funds. i agree with the commission on the proposal to temporarily raise the maximum rate of union co-financing for programmes under way in states benefiting from the support of the european financial stabilisation mechanism, such as greece, ireland and portugal, and from the balance of payments support for non-euro area countries, such as latvia and romania. this temporary increase in co-financing, provided at the request of the state, would reduce the amount of corresponding national funds needed for 2011 and 2012 to support economic recovery in these member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to support the commission's proposal to raise the maximum cofinancing rate in a period of such deep crisis. i also admire the commitment of my colleagues to seek a broad consensus among the member states so that we can face together the financial and budgetary crisis that has hit our economy. the crisis could jeopardise the ability of individual countries to meet commitments under community programmes co-financed by the community. the increase proposed by the commission is intended to help the rural economy and the wider economic recovery. i therefore hope that a joint effort will be made by all the member states to support this proposal in view of the improvement in the overall economic situation.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr de castro's report. in addition to rigour, a good deal of realism is needed to counter the current economic crisis. there are some countries that are particularly affected by this phase of recession. the derogations contained in the document are at present indispensable especially for these countries. i refer in particular to the increase in the maximum co-financing rate for ongoing programmes.
in writing. − the current crisis is affecting the financial stability of the eu member states and consequently creating problems in the use of the eu funds that the member states themselves receive. internal budgetary problems are placing many states in difficulty in implementing expiring agreements on the co-financing of community programmes. the text by mr de castro, which i have voted in favour of, seeks to increase the level of eu funding in relation to the programmes already in place, that is to say to allow for the possibility of additional funding to try to help the states in difficulty, so as to avoid greater problems, with the hope that the states in question will be able to cope with the emergency.
in writing. - honourable members, considering that as a result of the financial and budgetary crisis some member states are facing budgetary constraints which could prevent them from meeting their commitments under the co-financed community programmes, in this context i considered it appropriate to support the commission's proposal to temporarily raise the maximum rate of union co-financing for programmes under way in member states receiving support from the european financial stabilisation mechanism. therefore, agreeing with all the amendments to the regulation, i am voting in favour of the proposal in order to speed up the legislative procedure so that it can take effect by the end of 2011.
in writing. - the international market crisis and the budgetary crisis in some member states mean that action is urgently needed to ensure that the member states in difficulty comply with their commitments, in line with the principle of solidarity which guides the european union. the financial management provisions we voted for do not provide for additional commitment appropriations, but advance the 2013 appropriations to the 2011-2012 period. the measure is necessary because of the urgency of the moment. the vote will allow the member states to temporarily raise the maximum rate of union co-financing for co-financed community programmes such as the structural and cohesion funds, the eafrd and the european fisheries fund.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for mr de castro's text. as a result of the financial crisis, some member states have faced budgetary constraints that could prevent them from meeting their commitments under the joint co-financed programmes (structural and cohesion funds, eafrd and european fisheries fund). to remedy this situation, the commission has proposed to temporarily raise the maximum rate of union co-financing for programmes under way in member states receiving support from the european financial stabilisation mechanism (currently affecting greece, ireland and portugal) and the balance of payments support mechanism for non-euro area countries (currently affecting latvia and romania). this temporary increase in union co-financing, provided at the request of the member state concerned, would reduce the amount of corresponding national funds needed in the financial years 2011 and 2012, thus contributing to the mobilisation of the funds programmed for the rural economy and to an overall economic recovery in those member states.
in writing. - non-tariff barriers, first discussed in the 1979 wto multilateral trade negotiations, are all trade restrictions that restrict imports. i believe that open and above all fair trade is the best way to ensure and maintain a level playing field for european businesses operating internationally. bilateral and multilateral negotiations offer the commission the opportunity to strengthen regulatory cooperation with the eu's main trading partners. in my view, the commission should act proactively and in a targeted manner to reduce the restrictive impact that non-tariff barriers have on the ability of european companies to access foreign markets. this should be a top priority of the union's new trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, as regards free trade agreements between the european union and third countries, it is essential to ensure that they provide sufficient reciprocity in market access and mutual benefits for both parties. the ultimate objective should be to limit litigation and the costs associated with it for european businesses, without compromising the quality of the resulting regulatory environment.
in writing. - in my view, europe is not doing enough to protect its industry and services from external competitors, who are protecting themselves with internal safeguards that are much stronger and more effective than ours. in any case, it is acceptable that in the course of trade negotiations with the most important partners and in the production of community legislation on international trade, we should try to take account of the need for europe to balance the terms of trade and the quality and quantity of non-tariff measures between ourselves and our trading partners. i agree with the need to include the issue of non-tariff barriers in all free trade agreements, the possibility of setting up automatic warning mechanisms to detect new unjustified non-tariff barriers, and the focus on the sensitive issue of raw material supply. i therefore voted in favour of the sturdy report.
in writing. - i welcome the report presented, which i voted in favour of, as it deals with a very sensitive subject, that of non-tariff barriers, in the light of the financial crisis europe is experiencing. non-tariff barriers, identified by european companies, exporters, analysts and the commission as a growing barrier to free access to the markets of partner countries, are trade restrictions, excluding duties, which restrict imports. they can be of two main types: measures that directly affect prices such as export subsidies or duty drawback, or measures that indirectly affect prices such as import licences. they are therefore instruments with a potentially legitimate nature, but often used politically incorrectly. the commission needs to act proactively in reducing the impact of these barriers on the ability of european businesses to access foreign markets. in this context, europe must address the problem in a holistic way, by reviewing trade measures, removing unlawful barriers and paying particular attention to current and future free trade agreements, ensuring sufficient reciprocity in market access and providing for bilateral safeguard mechanisms including appropriate corrective measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that globalisation is only good to the extent that we control its direction. my generation, on this continent, has access to a wealth of goods and services that would have been unthinkable in other eras or in other parts of the world. at the same time, opening up international trade has made it possible to move the economy more and better, with positive consequences for the majority of citizens. this does not mean that compensatory measures should not be considered for those who, despite themselves, fail us because of the greater degree of exposure to the international market, and, again for the sake of fairness, obstacles cannot be left which perpetuate the existence of pockets of inefficiency to the exclusive advantage of the few who benefit from them. i look forward to seeing the commission's proposal on this subject, so that we can further increase the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. - non-tariff barriers must receive at least as much attention as is currently given to the abolition of customs duties in all appropriate regulatory bodies. this would be an important step forward in the framework of the trade negotiations which the eu is conducting in the world. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the liberalization of trade and investment can only bring advantages, and that is why i am voting in favour. the opportunities offered by an open market are much greater and benefit those countries which have eliminated customs duties and non-tariff barriers, which prevent european companies from trading freely with foreign markets, which would undoubtedly lead to a considerable advantage, increasing demand for goods and also the common wealth. at a time like this, the world economy needs to support each other and work together to ensure that the recovery can be as fast as possible.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, given that open and fair trade is the best way to ensure and maintain a level playing field for european businesses operating internationally, non-tariff barriers are a form of trade restriction on imports. the commission should therefore act proactively to eliminate, or at least reduce, the restrictive impact of non-tariff barriers on the ability of european companies to access foreign markets. i agree with all the amendments tabled in the following report and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - the report by mr sturdy on the reduction and elimination of unjustified tariff and regulatory barriers to trade and investment by the eu's strategic partners was voted on today in strasbourg. it was considered appropriate for the european union, which has exclusive competence in trade and investment matters, to address the issue of non-tariff barriers, in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy, combining a diplomatic approach to be pursued in close cooperation with the european external action service (eeas) and a strengthened regulatory dialogue with the eu's trading partners, with a view to placing non-tariff barriers at the heart of international negotiations. it was also hoped that the wto and the commission would also jointly work to assert the benefits of trade liberalisation so that the european union could fully enjoy the opportunities provided by an open market, while offsetting the possible negative externalities of widespread liberalisation, by mutual agreements with trading partners on certain transitional exceptions.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report's text defining tariff barriers as all trade restrictions, excluding duties, which restrict imports. these measures may affect the price of the commodity either directly, such as export subsidies or duty drawback, or indirectly, such as import licences or import quotas. the issue of non-tariff barriers is recognised in the report as a technical and politically sensitive issue, as these measures are implemented by governments in accordance with public interest principles. i think that the right balance should be struck between opening up trade and temporarily closing the market by establishing transitional exceptions through mutual agreements with trading partners.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. the rapporteur and the inta committee have done a good job. it is, however, fair to point out that some states raise barriers to legitimately protect their economies and their consumers. the text lacks an important reflection, and that is why it would be appropriate for europe to start protecting its own production fabric, rather than just asking for lower tariffs and the elimination of non-tariff barriers. in my view, a genuine trade policy must go beyond this and must first of all look at the interests of europe's small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. − european manufacturers often have difficulty entering and being competitive in eastern markets, especially in the automotive, aviation and aeronautics sectors. it is therefore necessary to remove barriers to trade and investment in order to create a fair and open market. bilateral and multilateral negotiations provide an opportunity to strengthen regulatory cooperation with the eu's main trading partners in the framework of high-level dialogues. these instruments should be used increasingly to promote the equivalence and convergence of international standards in all areas, including public procurement. the vote underlines the importance of reducing the restrictive impact of non-tariff barriers on the ability of european companies to access foreign markets.
in writing. - i expressed my support for the text presented by mr sturdy analysing the restrictive measures on international trade adopted in recent years by the union's major international partners. it can certainly be said that the benefits of trade liberalisation are most evident in those countries which have eliminated customs duties and non-tariff barriers, making the most of the opportunities offered by the 'open market'. finding the right balance between trade opening and temporary market closures is, in essence, the objective that eu trade negotiators should seek on the eve of any major trade negotiation, especially as regards free trade agreements.
mr president, since mr coppa has already stated why the s&d group supports the liese report, i should like to concentrate on the council's conclusions, which i believe represent a small but important step forward. of course, parliament expected more, especially in terms of planning and conduct, but the real risk of a substantial abandonment of the csdp has been avoided, and i would like to thank the high representative for her work on this front. we are talking again about new operations, after the not very encouraging story of eufor in libya, the horn of africa, sudan and the sahel. of course we expect to see concrete results and we are ready to offer our political and financial support. while there are now projects to be implemented on pooling and sharing, the search for unanimity has imposed limits on the capacity to plan and conduct, but the council's conclusions also show the willingness to consider the activation of the operations centre as just a first step. it is now important not to lose momentum and to take the next steps, without which no european state will escape a fate of global irrelevance.
mr president, lady ashton, all over the world, there are increasing obstacles, including legislative ones, to religious freedom. attacks and murders are increasing year by year and affect believers of all religions, but especially christians. paradoxically, religious freedom is becoming a less and less certain issue instead of being one of the most natural and indisputable freedoms. in europe and in our parliament, we are constantly proclaiming the defence of human rights, but our action to guarantee religious freedom is still not very effective. i therefore reiterate the proposal, already put forward on other occasions, to establish a specific, accurate and annual report by the european parliament to check the state of religious freedom in the world. this report would provide the necessary elements for planning appropriate and preventive policy interventions, consistent with the high representative's claim to organise policies appropriate to each country in relation to the needs of the country itself.
mr president, we are starting to gain an appreciation of the effects of the sanctions aimed at crippling the efficacy of the syrian regime. many opposition leaders have welcomed the sanctions as a means to cut off the government’s ability to maintain its massive security apparatus, but many observers have also stressed the damage that some of the sanctions are doing to the syrian people, with skyrocketing prices for basic foodstuffs and the rapid devaluation of the syrian pound. it is important to continue using sanctions. we should intensify our pressure against the selling of arms to the syrian regime, and we should further penalise those providing military equipment or technological support. however, we should avoid impacting too much on ordinary citizens. finally, it is fundamental to promote the acceptance of an international role in ending the conflict in syria. i am not talking about the acceptability of a libya-like scenario for syria, but of mediation undertaken by a multilateral entity like the un, the eu, the arab league or others. i would be glad to know what your ideas on this issue are.
mr president, lady ashton has said that in syria, the repression must end and a transition must begin. well, we all wonder how that can happen in reality: it is true that the sanctions have been tightened up, although from this point of view we must improve them further to make them more effective, but it is also true that the regime is no longer listening to the arab league either. what is, and what can our role be? i think lady ashton's effort must be directed first and foremost to putting great pressure on the un, china and russia because if assad feels that china and russia are close, he will not feel alone. the role these two nations are playing in the un is really questionable, as is the funding that the european union has given to syria - indeed assad - until a few months ago. wasn't he a dictator before? wasn't your country devoid of freedom and democracy until recently? we must get away from this notion of political correctness, where anyone sitting at the table with us merits money and relations with the european union. in syria, the president interrupted the speaker.
madam president, the two rapporteurs have made a very important effort to redefine the neighbourhood policy, which is necessary in the face of the great changes taking place, particularly in the mediterranean region, which is being affected by a new wind which is transforming many of these countries. the qualitative leap which the new phase imposes on us must be made with strength and determination, in order to create the conditions for our support for the transition processes under way. but we have to do this very carefully because the dynamics of open access in north african countries are not linear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. but beyond all this, we must be on the ground, not turn our backs, but rather accompany these changes with greater attention and widen our field of action. of course, our attention must be focused on the economic and financial sphere, on the opening up of markets, on a regulated process of mobility, but we also need to be more rigorous today in demanding that the new laws respect human rights, equality between men and women, political and religious pluralism. a new neighbourhood policy must have these new pillars if it is to be effective and not repeat the mistakes of the past. i hope that the positive action taken by commissioner füle will continue in this direction.
i would like to thank mr perello rodriguez for his excellent work. it was certainly not easy for such a complex directive to be able to combine the needs of consumers with those of companies, just as it was not easy to establish rules governing the composition, manufacturing specifications and labelling of fruit juices and similar products in order to promote free movement within the european union. we are in the second amendment to directive 112 of 2001, which is necessary to continue the integration of the codex alimentarius rules into european legislation. i am very pleased and consider it a victory for both consumers and our market that we have avoided the grave risk of finding on our tables an orange juice made from a mixture of oranges and mandarins, without this being accompanied by a correct sales denomination of the product. the new amendments will finally make it possible to clarify the distinction between fruit juice and fruit nectar for consumers, and if fruit nectar naturally contains sugars, it will be possible to write on the labels that the juice contains sugars in nature. considerable progress has been made, particularly with regard to nectar, and i believe that the directive is moving in the right direction in order to encourage consumers to make informed purchases. in europe, the market for fruit juices represents 10% of the market for non-alcoholic beverages, and i hope that in future people will prefer a local product which combines high quality with sustainable agricultural development, in accordance with european principles of food safety. the annual need of the european industry for the production of orange juice is estimated to be about one million tonnes, while domestic production provides only 10 per cent. it is therefore clear that the production of citrus fruit must be increased and i hope that the new cap will provide for financial measures capable of developing its cultivation and the consequent creation of a virtuous agri-food chain which also uses quality fruit for the production of juices, excluded from the fresh market because of minor defects or calibration. this request is of course addressed to commissioner cioloş, who is present here. in conclusion, mr president, i believe that the directive has two main aims: the commission has also proposed a more comprehensive labelling and a better quality of the product.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new legislation seeks to avoid the confusion that consumers experience when buying fruit products. fruit juice can only be defined as such if it contains 100% fruit, without any type of addition, including sugar or otherwise. fruit nectar, on the other hand, may be sweetened by adding sugar or honey up to a maximum of 20% by weight of the product, and in any case the quantity must be indicated on the label. where a product is made from more than one fruit species, it must be indicated in the list of ingredients, unless it is chosen to indicate all the ingredients individually. in order to avoid confusion, a transitional period of four and a half years is envisaged during which the indication 'without added sugar' may continue to appear on the label of fruit juice. i have often pointed out to the commission, referring to the previous speech by my green colleague, that fruit juices are marketed in a clearly misleading way, for example, by displaying the image of a fruit on the entire package, while the small print on the back of the packaging reveals that the fruit is only a minority part of the product. the last case, reported to the commission, concerns a well-known brand from the same country mentioned by the green member, which offers the consumer a package with the image of a waterfall of blueberries and the words '100% fruit smoothie'. the label on the back states in small print that the product contains only 8 percent cranberry juice and 40 percent apple juice. i would also point out that, since 85% of orange juice is produced with extra ec fruit, it would have been appropriate to require the indication of origin on the label in order to provide correct information to consumers, but unfortunately this has not been possible either. we shall vote in favour of the report, despite some criticisms, partly because the lengthy negotiations have led to a text which has been widely accepted.
in writing. the consumer associations tell us that most of the people interviewed do not really know the difference between a 'fruit juice' and a 'fruit netting', between a 'juice without added sugars' and a 'natural fruit juice'. we believe that greater clarity is needed for a free and informed choice. for example, a mixture containing 90% apple and 10% strawberry juice will have to be called 'apple and strawberry juice', whereas it can currently be labelled 'strawberry juice'. a generic name such as 'mixed juice' may be used if there are three or more sources of fruit. that is the spirit of the resolution we have voted today: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of consumer information. the ppe group to which i belong balances the needs of producers equally: until now, european producers have been treated differently from their counterparts importing fruit juices from third countries (the usa and china, for example) into the eu, sometimes without the same strict controls as european producers. today we have ensured that this discrimination will cease by imposing the same obligations on importers from third countries, thereby reassuring consumers of the quality of the products they will freely choose to buy.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the regulation is to reduce the phosphorus content of detergents to 0.5% by weight from 2013. at present, this limit will only apply to household laundry detergents, the extension to household dishwasher detergents will be assessed by the end of 2014. this is an important point because, as the commissioner has also said, such an extension will only take place when technically and economically viable alternatives are available, alternatives which are not available today or are not readily available. the choice of this addition allows us to vote in favour because in fact if we had kept the original approach of the envi committee we would simply have led the consumer to use twice as much detergent in the dishwasher than the indicated dose, with the consequence that absolutely nothing would have changed for the environment, while the consumer would have spent twice as much to be able to wash as before. i agree with the commission on the extension to industrial and dishwashing detergents. the same council agreed to extend the scope to dishwashing detergents with a limit of 0,3 grams from 2017, subject to any amendments, and to laundry detergents with a limit of 0,5 grams from 30 june 2013. i therefore consider the final text to be an honourable, fair and discreet agreement for business, consumers and the environment, and we will undoubtedly vote in favour of it.
mr president, the italian delegation of the european people's party is deeply grateful to the polish presidency for the work it has done. if i had to define this contribution in one word, i would use the word 'hope', because it is in this house that the polish minister for finance has reminded us that the outcome of europe's contradictions, if not resolved in the wake of european ideals, will lead us to conflict. it is right that the polish presidency has a deep sense of the tragedy we are living through, and i congratulate it for its efforts to help us overcome the contradiction of food aid to the poor. it has been a valuable work, done in concert with the commission, which has allowed us to be close to our citizens in a concrete and tangible way: the european parliament has thus been reminded that europe is a sure hope, that is to say, the only sure way to our future!
mr president, i listened to the debate this morning and i have to tell the polish president that it has emerged that the consensus is far greater than the disagreement. i am personally in the group of those who agreed and i would like to stress a very important part of the polish president's speech, which was very hotly debated yesterday: you complained that intergovernmental cooperation was more important than community europe. for some years now, community law has not developed as it was intended, and the intergovernmental conference - as president barroso explained yesterday - has paralysed the explosion that community law would have achieved in recent years. the predominance of community law is at odds with an intergovernmental body which does not give europe the aspiration and the tension which you, as president, have been wanting to give it for the last six months. in sum, we believe that the summit was neither negative nor positive, but interlocutory in that it will have its effects in march and that your presidency has in some way prevented the failure of europe, which we hope will have a greater development in the coming year.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, now that the legislation for reinforced economic governance, the ‘six-pack’, has entered into force – which it did yesterday – we must hasten its implementation. on the fiscal side this is already a work in rapid and serious progress. on the macro side we need to move on as well. i therefore welcome your draft resolution on the envisaged design of the scoreboard for the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances as well as your oral question, which in fact consists of nine questions, to which i shall try to respond in my remaining two minutes and seven seconds. following your resolution tomorrow, and as the commission received the views of the council and the european systemic risk board respectively in november, we can now finalise the design of the scoreboard without any further delay, and in full compliance with democratic principles. the final scoreboard will become part of the alert mechanism report, which is currently scheduled for adoption by mid-january. it will be discussed in ecofin and the euro group in january/february. taking due account of these discussions, the commission will launch in-depth reviews of the member states for which they are needed. these in-depth reviews will analyse macroeconomic imbalances and provide the basis for any recommendations to be addressed to member states. let me underline the key difference between fiscal and macroeconomic surveillance, and between the excessive deficit procedure and the excessive imbalance procedure: both are preventive, but macroeconomic surveillance is even more preventive than fiscal surveillance, and as such is necessary for economic stability and fiscal sustainability. this we have seen, for instance, in the cases of ireland or spain, both of which had sound public finances prior to the crisis. once the crisis hit with its full force, however, their serious macroeconomic imbalances led to a very serious fiscal crisis which then turned into a recession in the real economy and led to high unemployment, with very serious social and human consequences. moreover, while fiscal surveillance is highly numerical and quantifiable, macroeconomic surveillance requires a thorough economic reading and is much more qualitative. this means that, when we propose countries for an in-depth study, it will not imply that they face an imminent crisis. instead, it means that for these countries there is a risk of imbalances which, if confirmed, would clearly need to be addressed effectively. in other words, it serves as an essential early-warning system and a strong call for pre-emptive action to correct the build-up of those imbalances. this brings me to the further aspects of your oral question, especially the regulation’s equal application to all member states. the assessment of member states’ current account balances is an essential element of the economic analysis of the alert mechanism report. the commission stands fully by its declaration to the european parliament on 28 september stating that ‘macroeconomic surveillance covers countries with current account deficits and surpluses with appropriate differentiation as regards the urgency of policy responses and the type of corrective actions required’. to conclude, let me also recall that all 27 member states will be subject to surveillance. thus all member states will benefit from its findings, both on their own account and jointly for the common good of the european union. i am certain that the united kingdom will also want to participate in this work; we for our part want to – and indeed will – involve each and every member state of the european union. the regulation applies to all and we continue to work for the benefit of each and every member state and the whole european union, even though that sometimes seems to be forgotten in the midst of the most heated debates of the day.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been fighting here for a long time about economic governance, about the six-pack. the package of laws came into force yesterday. this is a package of measures to detect economic misdevelopments in member states at an early stage. in the area of macroeconomic surveillance, the scoreboard has always been at the heart of the political debate here in parliament. parliament ultimately decided to lay down only basic guidelines in the legislative text and to entrust the commission with the task of drawing up the scoreboard. the commission has now completed this work. the parameters proposed can be a good way to achieve the desired goal. we have already discussed the symmetrical approach of the six-pack in our political debate here in parliament. but such a symmetrical approach also assumes the incorrect view that the european union is a closed and bilateral market. if one exports too much, does that automatically mean that another exports too little? i don't think it is. is the problem of those member states currently experiencing difficult economic times really due to the fact that other member states are more successful in the internal market or in the world? this would also mean that it is not a problem if member states do not do their economic policy homework. that approach would not get us very far. the scoreboard will evolve. it takes time, new indicators will be introduced in the next few years and the limits will probably change with economic developments. that is why parliament has also provided for us to have a task of monitoring and assessing this development. we are also doing that with this question to you, commissioner. the commission's proposal is useful and useful to us in the european people's party as a starting point. i am convinced that it can go its way and that it can lead to success. that is why we will agree to it.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing rules today which will probably change soon, after the reform of the treaties imposed at the last summit by france and especially by germany. we have come to this difficult choice even though there were rules to prevent macroeconomic imbalances in the past through the stability and growth pact; the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. i am not at all enthusiastic about brussels acting as a watchdog, but if there are to be rules, it is right that they apply to everyone and that everyone should be treated equally, including the two states that are trying to teach us a lesson today. in europe, all states and all peoples must have equal dignity and the rules must be decided and respected by all.
mr president, yesterday in florence an extremely serious event occurred, one that arouses horror and dismay: a gunman in his 50s opened fire in two markets in the city of florence on five citizens of senegalese origin. two of them have died and three are now hospitalized in serious condition. the killer then committed suicide. it is a member of the racist and xenophobic far right who wanted to kill people he did not know, guilty only of having black skin. florence is my city, and before being elected to the european parliament i was mayor of florence for ten years. florence is a civilized and democratic city, a gold medal for resistance to nazism. yet it was in florence that this abominable racist crime took place, demonstrating that nazi-fascist madness can manifest itself everywhere and that it must never be thought that it has been erased once and for all. mr president, i ask you to express the european parliament's condolences and to reiterate the commitment of this house to combating all forms of intolerance and racism and to respecting the dignity and rights of every human being.
i would like to remind you that this morning, at the opening of the sitting, president buzek has already made very strong statements, both in relation to what has happened in florence and in relation to what has happened in liège. we cannot but renew the sentiments and the words of very strong condemnation already expressed by president buzek. we shall now proceed to the vote.
mr president, i tabled an oral amendment to introduce respect for human rights into this resolution. the text to be inserted after paragraph 7 of the resolution is as follows: 'calls on the commission to introduce a human rights clause in the fisheries agreement with morocco, as also provided for in the european parliament resolution on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements;'. i believe that this amendment improves the resolution and gives the commission a precise indication, at the negotiating stage, to take account of the international context which, especially in that area, often sees this parliament divided.
mr president, the fruit juice sector, through this report which i have supported, is taking a further step on the road towards greater transparency and consumer confidence. i therefore welcome initiatives which provide greater clarity for european consumers, particularly by indicating the origin of the raw material, in relation to what was previously approved. finally, european consumers of fruit juices will be able to know the origin of the raw material used, to the benefit of european farmers, especially those in the southern regions of europe, who have been denied this possibility until now. it is clear that additional information and the inability to indicate elements that generate confusion about the precise characteristics of fruit juices are also important elements that can be an advantage for all european consumers.
mr president, the draft directive we voted on this morning attempts to amend for the second time directive 112/2011, which has already been submitted to this parliament for approval. i welcome the clear distinction between fruit juices and concentrated juices, which is one of the aims of the directive: the aim is not to mislead consumers when they make a purchase, but to encourage informed spending, which also leads to healthier consumption. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of the profits of the european union's taxpayers. the words 'without added sugar' are allowed for the category of juices in annex i. as regards nectar, it was not considered necessary to specify the mandatory presence of sugar. in short, a directive for the benefit of citizens and consumers, facilitated in their conscious purchasing.
mr president, phosphates in household detergents end up in europe's water systems, rivers, streams and lakes. phosphorus accelerates the reproduction of various life forms, so algae and other fast-growing plant species proliferate at an unprecedented rate when phosphorus is increased in an aquatic environment. this overgrowth of algae deprives other living organisms of oxygen and can also produce toxins by destroying fish and plant species, thus reducing the quality of the water itself. i therefore voted in favour of the text voted on today because, in order to clean up europe's water resources, it is desirable to reduce the amount of phosphorus that is discharged into the waters of our continent.
mr president, the text presented by mr lisek analyses the possible measures to be taken to reduce the cost of defence, which, in a period of financial crisis, is a heavy burden on the community budget. the main proposals concern better coordination of defence system planning, pooling and sharing of defence capabilities, and support for research and technological development. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's view that the economic and financial crisis which has hit us can be an opportunity for the integration of the european union's defence policies, providing the impetus for the elaboration and finally implementation of those ambitious reforms which have been stalled for years. for these reasons i voted in favour.
mr president, despite the serious financial crisis we are in, there are sectors of the economy which are never, if ever, affected by the cuts imposed by the austerity measures adopted by the member states. for example, the so-called 'blood and tears' financial maneuver of the italian government is proving to be blood and tears only for the usual well-known, namely workers and pensioners. the military spending, on the other hand, does not seem to be affected, since the purchase of 131 jsf fighter-bombers has been confirmed, a purchase which the italian government is committing to until 2026, for a total expenditure of about 15 billion euros, that is, about half of this "blood and tears" manoeuvre we are undergoing. for this and other reasons i voted against the lisek report which, despite some good ideas for cutting expenditure, calls the cuts in the defence sector worrying. ladies and gentlemen, there are other cuts that should worry us more at a time like this! i'll close with a rhetorical question: "is it not possible that all these weapons purchased today will be used tomorrow on our citizens in revolt who will ask us to account for our poor choices?"
mr president, there is no doubt that the strengthening of bilateral relations between the european union and a world power like russia will make these meetings - which will be fruitful in terms of trade - necessary, especially if russia, as we hope, finally joins the world trade organisation. this would be a way of widening relations and at the same time giving a second chance to the many entrepreneurs who operate in the territory of the member states. another useful step could be the liberalisation of short-stay visas to facilitate internal movement, while an important step was the elections - defined by the high representative of the european union as technically well prepared and administered - but the wind of freedom that continues to blow in russia must be supported and assisted to guarantee fundamental rights, freedom of expression and above all those high freedoms that are closely related to a system of law that we trust will soon also mark russia.
mr president, the revision of the european neighbourhood policy is certainly a strength in relations with the southern part of this important area, which borders on southern europe. it is a significant aspect which does not exhaust the activities of the european union, but which at the moment gives the mediterranean a central role: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in drawing up this report. this is the objective which not only concerns the southern dimension but which is now known for its centrality.
mr president, the arab spring and its aftermath have necessitated a review of the european neighbourhood policy. it is clear that, as things stand, relations with these countries must be more focused on cooperation in order to ensure that democracy and security on both sides of the mediterranean are given priority. in this respect, i believe that intercultural and interreligious dialogue is essential to strengthening mutual respect and tolerance with the neighbouring partner countries, while at the same time promoting the fight against terrorism and extremism. for these reasons, mr president, i naturally voted in favour.
mr president, i can only welcome today's report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy, and in particular the proposal to strengthen the union's southern partnership, which is essential for the democratic consolidation of the region after the historic events of last spring. the funds for the countries of the southern mediterranean were allocated before the crisis and appear inadequate in relation to the actual needs and the modernisation of the societies of these countries; i believe that the support for the civil society instrument should be increased; i reiterate to the european commission the parliament's proposal for the creation of the erasmus and leonardo programmes with a euro-mediterranean character, in order to promote mobility and the exchange of good practice among young people.
in writing. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) provides support for the period 2007-2013 to countries in the process of joining the eu. this assistance is provided in the context of the european partnerships with potential candidates and the accession partnerships of the actual candidate countries covering the western balkan countries and iceland. iceland and montenegro have been candidates for accession to the union since 2010. as the ipa is a flexible instrument, it is possible to modulate support to these beneficiary countries according to the needs arising from the commission's assessments and documents. they 're two different realities: iceland, for example, has a gdp per capita higher than the european average, while montenegro's administrative and financial management, due to its different national history, presents different needs and problems also in the field of financial transparency. the rules for the allocation of ipa-cbc and enpi funding should therefore be adapted to the new findings on the two candidate countries.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the introduction of assistance for the pre-accession of new member states to the union. i think that it is necessary to impose basic conditions so that countries wishing to join the community as it already exists can adjust to the level of those already members, in order to avoid that there is too great a difference from the outset, which could lead to problems and more complicated cooperation between them.
in writing. − the amendment responds to concerns expressed by eu member states involved in crossborder cooperation (cbc) programmes regarding participation in calls for proposals. in agreement with the member states that participation in calls for proposals is limited to applicants from countries participating in the relevant cbc programme, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the accession negotiations.
in writing. the text presented by mr albertini concerns the proposal to amend the regulation establishing a preaccession assistance instrument for those countries which have the prospect of becoming members of the european union. the aim is to provide assistance according to the needs of the countries involved in the current exercise, based on the commission's annual strategy reports for the countries concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this instrument of pre-accession assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rodriguez report. in europe, fruit juices and similar products represent an important industrial sector. however, using orange juice as a reference model, 82% of the juice consumed in the eu comes directly from brazil and the usa, and less than 20% is produced in europe. the european processing industry, unlike other countries, is complementary to that of the marketing of fresh products and consequently generates a massive import of these products, causing high environmental costs in terms of co2. it is necessary to support the european sector, which has a significant added value in terms of employment, and to improve the quality of products, including more sustainable production processes that can also affect producers in third countries. i also agree with the importance of using statements on packaging such as: 'no added sugar' as there is considerable confusion about these types of products. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the consumer is informed of the products he is buying.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the proposal in the light of the amendments made to it during the trilogue. it is more in line with the newly adopted regulation on food information to consumers to have the word 'without added sugar' on the packaging for a transitional period of four and a half years.
in writing. − in the last two decades, fruit juice consumption in europe has almost doubled, thanks in part to european campaigns to raise awareness of good nutrition. the directive finally adopted today will mean that fruit juice can only be defined as fruit juice if it contains 100% fruit without any additives, with an indication of the origin of the raw material used. europe is also called upon to ensure greater transparency for consumers, including the indication of the origin of the raw material used. this is a key figure when you consider that 82% of the orange juice consumed in the union comes from brazil and the usa. from now on, therefore, we will no longer run the risk of finding on our tables juices made with mixtures of unknown fruits, not indicated on the product. i hope that this new element in the codex alimentarius of european legislation will help the new directive to enhance the quality of european products by encouraging more informed purchases by consumers.
in writing. − the protection of consumers requires the provision of the highest possible level of information, in the most transparent and clear way. it is logical that the rules should apply equally to products manufactured in the european union and to those imported. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the labelling of fruit juices, as it certainly serves to clarify matters. consumers must be informed as much as possible about what they eat and drink every day: in the past, there were often indications concerning the ingredients used in the preparation of these drinks which did not always correspond to the actual content of the product. from now on, however, you should be sure that the label is "real", that is, it accurately states the content of fruit juices or nectars. i am always in favour of rules which help to combat misleading and deceptive claims to consumers and, at least in this area, we have managed to achieve a rather satisfactory result.
in writing. - the amendment of the directive on the consumption and production of fruit juices in europe is a sensitive and highly debated subject of interest to many consumers. the text i voted for aims to make the product better than it is today by providing better information to protect the consumer. the buyer must be able to know exactly what kind of product he is buying, what kind of quality and, beyond the discussion of the preservation of the fruit used, the amount of saccharin or sugar and the diversification between fruit concentrate-derived products or not. i think the most important factor is the possibility of having a better final product which consumers can choose in a clear and informed way.
in writing. − given that the fruit juice and similar products sector is a major industry in the european union, it should be noted that more than three quarters of what is consumed in the eu comes mainly from brazil and the united states, meaning that a small part of the eu's consumption is produced in its territory. this is why we need to support the european industry by bringing the directive into line with international law and by establishing the same rules for all products marketed in the eu: the aim is to contribute to the free movement of these products, but also to clarify the rules on their labelling, product classification, authorized ingredients and the admissibility of certain practices. in order to support the proposal for a directive, i am voting in favour of all the amendments to the directive.
in writing. - we voted today in plenary on mr rodriguez's report, which refers to the need to adopt the proposal for a parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/112/ec on fruit juices and other similar products intended for human consumption. the rapporteur stressed the importance of supporting the european fruit juice sector by bringing the directive into line with international law and the codex alimentarius, in order to contribute to the free movement of these products and also to clarify the rules on their labelling, categorisation, authorised ingredients and the admissibility of certain practices. the directive should improve the dual designation which distinguishes squeezed fruit juices from concentrates; in practice, it is difficult for the consumer to distinguish between the different categories. clarification of this point is important for the sugar content of these products, which is a sensitive issue for groups of consumers with specific needs. the rapporteur is in favour of harmless practices such as adding tangerine to orange juice, which can enhance the flavour and colour of the fruit, to promote the marketing of the products. these measures must be reinforced by information campaigns that enable the consumer to know what he is buying.
in writing. - the european parliament, by adopting this report, is calling for the introduction of a new set of consumer-friendly rules on the labelling of fruit juices and nectars. the new rules aim to prevent potentially misleading names for mixed juices and miscellaneous terms such as 'without added sugar'. the priority is to provide consumers with accurate information so that they know what they are buying. the final document highlights the key role played by this assembly in banning the addition of sugar in products sold as fruit juices and in clarifying the presence of sugars or sweeteners in similar drinks.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr perello rodriguez, which seeks to improve the quality rules and production standards for fruit juices, a product which european consumers buy every day. the report ensures greater product transparency for the consumer by indicating the origin of the raw material contained in fruit juices. the report is a benefit not only to consumers, who can benefit from more accurate information, but also to european farmers, as it increases the value of european products on the market. i believe that consumers have a right to know what they are buying and to make healthier choices. the report requires a distinction to be made between fresh fruit juices and juices made from concentrated fruit juices, or between juice and nectar, depending on the concentration of fruit and sugar contained in the juice. the consumer is thus freed from the confusion that accompanied it and is now able to make informed purchases.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to reduce the amount of phosphates used mainly in household washing machine detergents. phosphates are damaging the already delicate and precarious balance of our ecosystem. these substances end up in water systems, rivers, lakes and streams, causing an acceleration of the reproduction of life forms such as algae, a process that leads to eutrophication by depriving other life forms of oxygen. this produces toxins, which are responsible for the death of several fish species. however, phosphates cannot be banned altogether, as many are man-made; however, their use can be reduced by using less of them in household detergents and automatic dishwashers, for example. i also share the intention to encourage the use of alternative detergents with minimal amounts of phosphates, which already occupy a large and growing share of the eu market, through harmonised legislation which will be an incentive, with a view to a future agreement, for third countries to reduce the level of phosphorus in water.
in writing. − the adoption of the new regulation on the use of phosphates in household detergents and dishwashing detergents will bring about the same standards for the marketing of these products throughout europe. i hope that greater harmonization in this area will help to overcome the fragmentation of the internal market which has hitherto required detergent manufacturers to comply with divergent national regulations. that is why i believe that with today's vote europe has taken another step towards the free movement of these products, while at the same time ensuring better protection of the environment.
in writing. - i fully support the proposal to reduce the phosphorus content of detergents used in household washing machines. the commission has rightly chosen to present a proposal for a regulation rather than a directive, because this instrument makes it possible to harmonize better the different regulations in the member states. my vote is in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr newton dunn on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household laundry detergents because it reduces the maximum levels of these substances in detergents. the general aim is to ensure greater consumer safety and environmental protection because these substances can be and often are harmful. pollution of groundwater and various domestic accidents are evidence of this. i therefore believe that each member state must adapt to the new standards as soon as possible, reducing the presence of phosphates as required by the amendment of the regulation in question.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the different national legislation in the european union on phosphates in detergents is creating a disorganized harmonisation at european level on this matter, which is fragmenting the internal market for detergents, where different member states have different policies and legislation. the aim of the commission's proposal for a regulation is to reduce the use of phosphorus in detergents, limiting pollution of water systems, rivers, streams and lakes, and to create harmonised regulations at european level for the member states. with the ultimate aim of purifying europe's water resources and promoting an agreement with third countries on the reduction of the phosphate content of detergents, and agreeing with all the amendments, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr newton dunn on the use of phosphates in household detergents was voted on today in the plenary. reducing the percentage of phosphoric acid in household use is a decisive step in the process of monitoring and monitoring the development of methodologies to combat toxic and polluting processes. the access of the phosphorus component to the seas leads to the over-proliferation of certain plant components which destroy and reduce a multitude of marine animal and plant species. combating the excessive use of phosphorus in household detergents, fertilisers and appliances means effectively and efficiently combating the degenerative cycle that the use of products with low environmental respect brings to the environment and to the health of the population. these objectives can be achieved by promoting alternative formulations that reduce phosphorus-rich washing and by harmonizing the different national regulations on this matter. the need also emerged to draw up agreements with third countries so that europe would commit itself, by a predetermined date, to reducing the use of phosphorous substances and to advancing the process of market adaptation towards new regulatory rules which are more properly respectful of the european environment.
in writing. − protecting europe's waters also involves small everyday gestures. by adopting this important report on the reduction of phosphorus in household washing machine detergents, we are making a valuable contribution to the reduction of pollution in europe's water systems. phosphorus from household detergents used to combat water hardness is a major contributor to this type of ecological imbalance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the phosphorus content of domestic products, which will help to protect our waters and facilitate trade agreements with third countries in the context of regional initiatives to clean up water resources, such as the baltic sea action plan and the danube region strategy. the protection of europe's water resources is a priority and a responsibility towards future generations.
in writing. - i fully supported the report by mr newton dunn on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household laundry detergents, because i believe that the report, despite its highly technical content, deals with a subject which is part of everyone's daily life. substances in detergents for washing machines, although necessary to ensure minimum standards of hygiene and health safety, can be harmful to the environment if present in excessive quantities, in particular they are responsible for the 'eutrophication of water'. eutrophication promotes the growth of algae and other plant species, which proliferate to the point of depriving other organisms of oxygen and releasing toxins that are highly harmful to our waters. the baltic sea alone receives 16,000 tons of phosphates a year, and the cost of removing the algae that periodically accumulates is quite high. i think we need to find a solution, by looking for substitutes for phosphates, which are equally effective but not harmful to the environment.
in writing. − the european union's priorities include the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable policies. in this case, today's vote is aimed at reducing the phosphorus content used in household washing machine detergents. phosphates often end up in water systems, rivers, streams, lakes, causing an overgrowth of algae and other plant species. this causes an overgrowth of algae that deprives other living organisms of oxygen and can also produce toxins, destroying fish species as well as other species and reducing the quality of the water itself. to avoid this environmental damage, the phosphorus content of detergents must be reduced. at the same time, we must think of small and mediumsized enterprises producing detergents for automatic dishwashers which do not yet have the know-how to produce detergents without phosphates, in order to avoid job losses.
in writing. − i voted against the extension of the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement for several reasons. the first is that we are facing a clear violation of international law. morocco is selling the natural resource of an occupied territory. according to the basics of international law, it would be able to do so only if the agreement were in accordance with the benefits and wishes of the local saharawi people. the moroccan government has failed to show any such benefits or wishes. in addition to that, of all the eu’s ongoing bilateral agreements, the deal with morocco is the worst. the rapporteur of the recommendation, along with an independent evaluation produced by the commission, plus the opinions of the development and budget committees and the assessment of authoritative un experts concur that the agreement is a waste of taxpayers’ money, it is ecologically and environmentally unsustainable and it has no significant macroeconomic effect on either the eu or morocco. for all these reasons i strongly believe that extending this agreement undermines the eu’s credibility as a defender of international law and as an impartial and equal institution.
in writing. - i am against the extension of the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement. the european commission's assessment of the previous agreement, which is being extended for a further year, is one of the worst ever for a fisheries agreement. the facts have shown that the agreement is ineffective in terms of costs and benefits to the moroccan economy and maritime infrastructure. only a small part of the funds made available has been used to support the fisheries sector in morocco and the agreement is proving costly and unable to achieve its objective of helping the economic and social development of the north african country. my vote in the plenary is therefore against, consistent with the negative assessment of the agreement in question.
in writing. - i am against the extension of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with morocco for one year, as this protocol presents a number of problems both in terms of its economic usefulness and its ecological implications. the question of western sahara is also not to be overlooked. the agreement raises serious concerns about the ecological issue. we know that of the 11 demersal stocks fished in moroccan waters, 5 are overexploited, which raises concerns about the fishing carried out by european vessels. the question is whether the agreement on fishing for surplus stocks can be respected, given that they are running out. last but not least, there is the widespread problem of discards, shark catches and the likely capture of marine mammals by trawlers. the fisheries off the coast of western sahara are a controversial subject. we know that western sahara is a 'non-self-governing territory' as provided for in article 73 of the united nations charter. morocco has never been recognized as an official administering power by the un. the exploitation of this territory should, in my view, only be carried out if it is in the interests of the local population, and i do not think that the agreement, as currently drawn up, allows for this.
in writing. - my vote is in favour of the haglund report. the disappointing results of the four years of the fisheries agreement make it imperative to rethink the conditions set in 2006. i agree with the possibility of not extending the current agreement.
in writing. − the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement renews an initial fisheries agreement reached in 2006 and valid until february 2011. the agreement provides for the possibility of a fleet of european vessels, including an italian vessel, fishing off the moroccan coast. i think it is in the interests of the eu, of maritime traffic, of fish trade and the importance of relations with non-european countries that i should vote in favour of this partnership agreement.
in writing. - i am against the conclusion of the agreement with morocco because it will not benefit moroccan fishermen or european taxpayers. it will not benefit moroccan fishermen because it will not create new jobs and will increase the disproportion that already exists between the local fleet and fishing potential. it will not benefit european taxpayers because they will spend €13.5 million to subsidize morocco's fisheries policy, without guarantees that the funds will be used profitably. moreover, for every euro invested, european taxpayers will recover only 65 cents, less than half of what they recover on average under similar agreements.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the fishing industry, which is the main source of income for the eu. the difficulties in renewing the agreement stem from the fact that, while it does not exclude the possibility of fishing in western sahara, it does not clearly involve the saharawi people in its benefits. in this context, the council approved on 21 february a negotiating mandate for the commission to proceed with a provisional annual renewal of the agreement, pending more precise information on the involvement of local populations in the benefits of the agreement. the renewal is on 13 july 2011 and we are called this morning to give our opinion on this agreement. i have personally supported the conclusion of the provisional protocol (for a period of 12 months) pending clarification of the distribution of the benefits of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of benoit coeuré as a member of the european central bank. with his appointment, the ecb's board of governors once again has one representative from each member state. i think that at a delicate moment like the present one it is important that each member state, especially one as important as france, has its own representative who can contribute with his experience and knowledge to the daily work of the institute. at the same time, however, this national representativeness must not lead to the loss or risk of undermining the independence which has characterised the ecb's work in recent years and which has been fundamental in managing the crisis, resisting strong pressure from the member states. i would also like to thank mr lorenzo bini smaghi for the excellent work he has done during his tenure at the ecb.
in writing. - the considerations already made on the protocol already in force between morocco and the eu are, i believe, fundamental in view of a future protocol. given the financial contribution to the fisheries sector, it is essential that the cost-benefit ratio be changed, that more attention be paid to the economic and ecological consequences of overexploitation of depleted stocks. i hope that all the considerations already highlighted in the external report and those raised by parliament will be taken into account, on the assumption that bilateral agreements must be mutually beneficial and that the european union must not endorse any exploitation in the waters of western sahara or any other action which does not respect the rights of the population.
in writing. - in the context of the current economic crisis, we need to put military spending to work in the context of a continental rationalization. avoid costly national duplication in the field of defence, cooperate in scientific research for military purposes, create a european system for the coordination of military actions and international commitments in the field of counter-terrorism and conflict prevention: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore vote in favour of the lisek report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr lisek. in recent years, as a result of the continuing economic crisis, member states have reduced their defence budgets, which has resulted in a shift in their responsibilities for peacekeeping. member states spend around €200 billion a year on defence, which is about one third of the us defence budget. the non-organized and uncoordinated management of these funds has led to a disproportionate dependence of europe on the us, resulting in persistent gaps in capacity, overcapacity and duplication, with the result that the union has neither the resources nor the influence to be considered a credible guarantor of peace. the european union's defence policies must be progressively integrated through coordination of defence planning, through capacity sharing, particularly in areas such as logistics, strategic and tactical, medical assistance, education and training. finally, a european union white paper on defence is desirable in order to develop a european security strategy, defining more clearly the objectives, interests and needs of the union in relation to the means available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr lisek's report because i believe that the defence sector has suffered a setback which should not be underestimated, especially in view of the importance of the sector. from this point of view, the report proposes a european defence structure capable of optimising costs by exploiting the instruments of interstate and community coordination. such a structure, with the appropriate institutional bodies, should also serve to make economic operations (cost cuts or new structural models) concerning the defence sector more transparent and clear. i am convinced that this sector, which is strategic for the future of the eu, deserves due attention, both in terms of economic and financing policies and in terms of the appropriate measures to promote communication between the member states in order to improve efficiency and productivity.
in writing. − pooling and sharing defence capabilities is no longer an option but a necessity. all defence efforts undertaken by the european union in response to the financial crisis should be channelled to the european defence agency (eda). that is why the agency must be restructured. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - from the statistics that have been presented we can see that due to the severe crisis of recent years there have also been several cuts in the defence budgets, an area very important for the protection of our integrity. my vote in favour of this report is based on the idea that there can be no cutbacks in a sector such as the one mentioned above, which is essential for the security of any country. in order to avoid being caught off guard and unprepared for situations which may lead to conflict, it is always better to be protected and prepared.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, the fiscal consolidation in the european union and the reductions in defence budgets in most member states could lead to substantial programme cuts, reductions or delays for almost all member states, which is likely to continue to have a negative impact on the european defence industry and scientific progress in this field; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in view of the importance of the facts and in agreement with all the amendments tabled, i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i fully support the conclusions of mr lisek's report. the defence sector is undoubtedly one of the most affected by the austerity policies resulting from the economic crisis. at this rate, europe risks not being able to meet its international responsibilities and to see some of its traditional strategic weaknesses, such as the duplication of military capabilities and the inability to conduct operations without american support, become more acute. to prevent such a scenario from occurring and to avoid draining funds from other important spending lines, the only effective solution, as highlighted in the report, is to proceed with increased cooperation within the union, while respecting national prerogatives; cooperation covering all areas of defence, but in particular the liberalisation of contracts, technological research, coordination of planning and the sharing of certain capabilities. greater cooperation would also allow european countries to increase their strategic autonomy and political influence within the atlantic alliance.
in writing. - one of the items cut most heavily from the state budget during the international economic and debt crisis is certainly defence. the trend towards cutting military spending, however, limits the european union's ability to effectively assume its responsibilities in peacekeeping. in this context, there is a need for greater coordination between the member states, as uncoordinated budget cuts could lead to the total disappearance of certain european military capabilities. member states should seek to exchange information, where appropriate, and improve transparency of current and future cuts in defence spending. the vote in favour underlines the need for common support for technological development in this field and the priority given to building a european defence industrial and technological base.
in writing. - i welcome this resolution on russia: i believe that it is essential to continue the partnership in the energy field and in the political field, especially in the light of the current world situation. the european union is also committed to the principle of mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications. the recent elections have shown that some of the habits of the past have not completely disappeared. paradoxically, this situation is damaging the majority party united russia first: the election victory was still a foregone conclusion, perhaps with lower percentages. we hear about the russian spring, often from the very people who once praised soviet ideology, the consequences of which russia today still pays, with strong traces in its structure and within society. perhaps it is convenient for them to distort reality: there is no real alternative in russia at the moment to lead the country and keep it among the world's leading players. i condemn repression and all forms of violence, the right to speak and to demonstrate are inalienable values, among the foundations of the europe we all represent. i wonder why the reaction to russia's events is not the same as the recent american events related to the occupy movement street protests.
in writing. the resolution adopted by parliament on the eu-russia summit anticipates a summit of historic importance as it will coincide with russia's accession to the world trade organisation. my position on this is absolutely positive, this new opening will favour both russia's internal development and the resulting bilateral relations with the eu. the more favourable climate in relations, with the enlargement of markets, the opening up of transport, the liberalisation of short-stay visas and specific agreements on local traffic between the eu-russia border areas, will certainly be positive and beneficial for all and will, above all, strengthen the foreign and security policy.
in writing. parliament rightly calls for an immediate investigation into all reports of fraud and intimidation during the elections in russia on 4 december and expresses its support for the demonstrations of the past few days, which it considers to be an expression of the popular will. the conduct of the elections has shown that russia does not comply with the electoral standards set by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (osce). i am deeply concerned about the preliminary findings of the osce inquiry, which report a number of allegations of procedural violations such as fraud, lack of impartiality in the media, harassment of independent observers and lack of separation between state and party. the registration process for the election round effectively excluded numerous opposition parties and compromised freedom of association, political competition and pluralism from the very beginning of the election campaign. i therefore ask the president of the european council, the president of the european commission and the high representative for the eu's foreign policy to raise this issue at the next eu-russia summit on 15 december.
in writing. the second eu-russia summit of the year will take place in brussels tomorrow, 15 december. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in principle, negotiations for a new bilateral agreement could also be relaunched, particularly as regards trade rules. the other important outcome expected is the adoption of the so-called 'common steps' towards a possible future short-term visa liberalisation. this is essentially a series of measures which take up the terms of the branding charts and action plans approved for the balkan and eastern european countries. i think we should welcome the conclusion of the negotiations on the common steps: the prospect of visa liberalisation in the future, by facilitating contacts between the peoples, should indeed contribute to the modernisation of the country.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that the review of the european neighbourhood policy creates an opportunity for the eu to meet its objectives and to acknowledge the mistakes of eu and member states’ policy with regard, in particular, to the complacent approach towards the former tyrannies of the southern neighbourhood. it is fundamental to stress that the enp is based on shared values such as democracy, the rule of law, the fight against corruption and good governance. we must consider that it is in the highest interest of the eu to be ambitious in economic cooperation to support the defence of human rights. i also agree on the necessity to improve the role of the european parliament and to insist on the need to systematically include civil-society organisations at all stages of the review process.
in writing. - the report on neighbourhood policy stresses in many places the desirability of facilitating immigration from neighbouring countries to member countries. the rapporteur believes that the conditions for the passage of legal immigrants to europe should be improved, immigration itself facilitated by concluding partnerships on mobility, taking due account of the demographic, social and employment situation of both the country of origin and the country of destination. in addition, the issue of immigration should be seen as an opportunity, not so much from the point of view of possible security implications, and it would therefore be necessary to facilitate visa liberalization in order to move towards a free movement regime, in any case working towards facilitating the issuing of visas as much as possible. i do not agree with the basic principle that immigration should be seen as an opportunity, regardless of the consequences for the security and social and economic environment of our countries, and i am opposed to the basic policy suggested in the report, which is to facilitate the issuing of visas and the procedures for entry into europe for immigrants from neighbouring countries. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteurs who have jointly produced this important work to which i have given my positive vote. the european union must focus its efforts on its neighbourhood policy through a careful and constant dialogue aimed at promoting universal values such as the rule of law, democracy, good governance and human dignity, in accordance with the principles of conditionality and specificity, as not all processes are equal and require differential treatment depending on the country. in particular, for the countries south of the mediterranean, europe must accompany this transition by representing, on the political scene, a credible partner, guarantor of democracy and peace, through support for civil society. it is therefore necessary to involve in this process above all young people and women, who represent an important potential for the development of these societies. the democratic changes must be strongly supported by promoting cooperation and integration between the countries of this region in order to remove existing obstacles such as those to the free movement of people and goods. europe must and will be an example to the thousands of young people who are waiting for concrete answers.
in writing. - this report deals in an excellent way with all the major issues of democracy and the rule of law in the field of immigration, especially as regards the fight against poverty. in this connection, i would ask everyone to realize that the strengthening of the european union's relations with its neighbours in the mediterranean and eastern europe is now more essential than ever. this new approach is consistent with the reforms undertaken by our partners and at the same time provides an opportunity to share our democratic values embodied in the rule of law and good governance. i would like to stress, however, that the values we transmit and the changes themselves must be aimed at fully meeting the specific needs of individuals who have had the courage to reject oppressive situations, without however being invasive. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the revision of the european neighbourhood policy is necessary in the face of the changes brought about by the so-called 'arab spring' in the north african countries, which are still engaged in a long process of economic, political and social reconstruction. i believe that the european neighbourhood policy must be redesigned, looking at the developments and changes that the neighbouring countries are experiencing and facing over the months. in this sense, i think it is appropriate to adopt a more regionalist approach to this policy, which takes account of the differences and specificities of individual cases. in this context, the european union is called upon to play a key and substantial role in stimulating the emergence of new forms of democracy in neighbouring countries. the european neighbourhood policy therefore has a wide scope and addresses all those areas of interest which actively contribute to the process of democratic construction. protection of children's rights, freedom of expression and information, economic and commercial rights, are some of the aspects which will need to be monitored and encouraged more and more in the neighbouring countries, which are facing important and decisive challenges of change.
in writing. − in the full interest of the eu's neighbourhood policy objectives, tangible and credible incentives must be provided to neighbourhood countries to commit themselves to the common goal of bringing about a full-fledged democracy. the rapporteur rightly stresses the importance of monitoring bodies and also the need to encourage partnership from below, from society.
in writing. - i cannot but vote in favour of a point like this. the neighbourhood policy is one of the strengths on which we must work, but above all we must cooperate, because if we cannot support each other, it will be difficult to carry out concrete projects that can develop and consolidate the relationships created over time and sometimes built with great effort.
in writing. − considering that the union for the mediterranean was established with the ambitious aim of acting as a permanent instrument in strengthening relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, it is necessary to highlight the existing differences which can be an obstacle to relations. in this context, relations with these countries must be reoriented towards cooperation, which gives priority to democracy and prosperity on both sides of the mediterranean, and not just security and immigration control. in the light of the following considerations, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - there are many points in common with the report presented by mr siwiec and mr david: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. i do not share a few of its conclusions on immigration. the proposal to liberalize visas quickly, for example, seems to me to be a proposal that will cause discomfort to indigenous peoples and migrants, at least until the economic and social systems of europe and neighbouring countries are similar. the same applies to the idea of decoupling migration flows from security, a key link in preventing social tensions in areas of economic poverty.
in writing. - we voted today in plenary on the own-initiative report which highlights the role of cohesion policy in reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, creating new jobs, increasing growth, building infrastructure, ensuring the cohesive development of the eu through its specific objectives and instruments, and thus meeting the economic and social needs of european citizens. cohesion policy was among the first to adopt its regional dimension, representing its added value and helping to ensure its effectiveness and sustainability. the way each member state exploits the opportunities offered by membership of the european single market depends on its maturity and level of development, which vary from country to country. it follows that it is the responsibility of each member state to indicate the most effective measures to enable its economy to function within the global system. the report proposes new directions for the future architecture of the policy, to strengthen its performance, to ensure strong sustainable growth and increased global competitiveness.
in writing. − the new neighbourhood policy instrument aims to strengthen bilateral relations with partner countries and bring tangible benefits on such fronts as democracy, human rights, the rule of law, bilateral, regional and crossborder cooperation programmes. the new guidelines for future eu cooperation concern the countries of the eastern neighbourhood, but also nine countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. the new guidelines have several key elements, ranging from the principle of 'more money to the most virtuous' in the field of reforms to the democratization process. another priority is to reduce the complexity and time-consuming nature of the intervention planning process by simplifying the requirements for implementing eu projects. another need will be to focus european support on key objectives and to strengthen member states' cooperation with partner countries along the union's external borders.
in writing. − the report on the european neighbourhood policy emphasises the relations between the eu and neighbouring countries, recalls the importance of building a partnership with civil societies in these countries in order to promote the democratisation process and stresses the need to create free trade areas. the text unfortunately recalls that the eu should improve the management and maximise the mutual benefits of development migration by encouraging legal labour immigration and facilitating visa procedures. at a time of crisis such as the one we are living in, when community workers are in danger of losing their jobs, such proposals are out of place. for these reasons, i am voting against.
in writing. − the review of the european neighbourhood policy should as a matter of priority lead to a strengthening of eu support to the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, especially in the current crisis context, both in terms of resources allocated and in terms of how they are used. i share the aim of giving greater importance to democratic reforms and the rule of law, but i note that an approach based on mere differentiation on the basis of merit or 'performance' is not without risks of marginalisation for the less virtuous countries, which pose greater problems from the point of view of security and stability. the reorientation of funds towards the areas of political and governance reforms, if not accompanied by an increase in overall resources, could paradoxically also lead to a reduction in aid in the very socioeconomic sectors that triggered the uprisings in the south. the union's action in the neighbourhood must continue to be guided by uniform principles and criteria, and must be the expression of a single policy, without foreshadowing privileged paths for some neighbours to the detriment of others.
in writing. − terrorism is a serious threat to international stability and to the security of european society. the first decade of the 21st century has been marked by the fight against terrorism. the sense of security of the european population has decreased significantly following terrorist attacks on european soil, such as those in madrid in 2004 and london in 2005. the fight against terrorism therefore requires a coordinated international response and a global approach based on intelligence, police, judicial, political and, exceptionally, military instruments. the eu's counter-terrorism policy must therefore be in line with its foreign policy and internal security strategy. nevertheless, especially at a time when the neighbouring arab countries are moving closer to democracy, the union has a duty to serve as a moral compass, and not just towards its own citizens. the union's counter-terrorism policy must also always be designed to act in full respect of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it clearly underlines that the union’s external actions to combat international terrorism should be aimed at prevention. the text also highlights the need to promote dialogue, tolerance and understanding among different cultures, civilisations and religions. tracking and prosecution of terrorist activities must be part of a systematic approach based not on emergency but on a coherent, necessity-founded strategy. at european level i believe that one of the biggest problems is the absence of proper evaluation of eu counter-terrorism action. this evaluation should be carried out by an international multilateral body involved in crime and criminal law. the commission must fully assess the set of counter-terrorism policies and focus on future challenges, including the reform of europol and eurojust in the light of the new potentialities offered by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the report on counter-terrorism policy comes to the plenary after a passage in the commission which did not allow for the inclusion of important and crucial amendments which were aimed at giving the text a stronger imprint and more in line with the real needs of the fight against terrorism in europe. the need to update and increase the databases with appropriate technological means, and the need to protect the victims of terrorism with appropriate national and community policies, has not been included. the eu's priorities in this area have not been to raise awareness among european citizens of the emergence of terrorism in our society. it has not been accepted to recognise the well-known fact that uncontrolled immigration and youth unemployment, especially within certain immigrant communities, are a prime recruiting ground for terrorist activities and transnational terrorist organisations. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this formulation of the eu's counter-terrorism strategy. the threat of terrorist attacks in the european union remains serious and the links between terrorism and organised crime are growing. terrorist acts seriously jeopardise human rights, threaten democracy and aim to destabilise legitimately constituted governments, thereby weakening pluralistic civil societies. i therefore stress the need for the eu, its member states and its partner countries to base their strategy for combating terrorism on promoting dialogue, tolerance and understanding between different cultures, civilizations and religions. we must therefore expand existing strategic counter-terrorism partnerships with countries outside europe and create new ones. the prevention, investigation and prosecution of terrorist activities are crucial policies at eu level and must be part of a systematic approach based on a coherent strategy. it is important that these strategies are effective in terms of objectives and costs, avoiding duplication of measures and improper use by the institutions, agencies and bodies concerned.
in writing. the commission's communication is too narrow in its scope. the rapporteur is right to say that national policies to combat terrorism or national measures transposing policies agreed at european or international level must also be taken into account. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - in the light of the last 10 years of the fight against terrorism following the attacks of 11 september, i think it is important to reiterate with all of you the cornerstones of the fight against terrorism. i also believe that the eu must have a common anti-terrorism policy which is effective in preventing and protecting citizens, prosecuting terrorism-related offences and responding to such acts. a policy with firm positions that requires broad consensus, as expressed in the resolution by mrs in't velt, which i supported, and which is in defence of the state and in defence of fundamental rights.
in writing. − following the horrific attacks of 11 september 2001, the first decade of the 21st century has been characterised by the 'war on terrorism', whereas in recent years the european union has been increasingly targeted and victimized by terrorism and faces a constant threat. however, the absence of a clear and universally accepted definition of terrorism hinders discussions about terrorism and how to combat it. although i cannot agree with all the amendments tabled, i would like to vote in favour of the idea of giving the eu counter-terrorism policies a boost to achieve their objectives.
in writing. − counter-terrorism measures must correspond to the threat level and must be regulated to prevent risks, so it is important that the european commission documents as counter-terrorism policies of the various states and national are compensated and coordinated. an amendment which is fundamental to us, and which states that surveillance is a fundamental element in preventing illegal acts, was not adopted. equally important are the collection of personal data, the evaluation of best detection and identification technologies, the exchange of data and the risk assessment. it is amazing how much the eu is committed to helping the united states to solve the problem of the guantanamo prison, which, as a third country, is not really subject to any kind of control on our part. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. elements such as cyberterrorism, irregular immigration and phenomena related to the risk of recruitment from disadvantaged classes were not considered. for these reasons, the vote was against.
in writing. - in the first decade of the third millennium, the european union has been the constant target and victim of international terrorism of a political and religious nature, as witness the attacks in madrid in 2004 and london in 2005. the 2011 europol report indicates that the threat of terrorist attacks in the european union remains serious and that the links between terrorism and organised crime appear to be growing. we must not let our guard down, but we must study and analyse the new frontiers of terrorism, such as cyberterrorism, new structures, means and funding. the main objective of european policies in the fight against terrorism must be to protect and strengthen the fabric of democratic societies by strengthening civil liberties and democratic control. today's vote means more security for citizens and more prevention against terrorist acts.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would first like to thank mr cashman for his excellent work and, above all, for his patience. as we all know, democracy is based on the publicity of legislative work, the transparency of the decision-making process, the right of citizens to know in order to decide. that is why the charter of fundamental rights and the european treaties have proclaimed the fundamental right of access to documents and information. this right must be guaranteed to all citizens at all levels, from local to international, to ensure that institutions do the job for which they were created: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transparency is essential to prevent and fight corruption and infiltration by organised crime and powerful actors into institutions at all levels. i am particularly pleased that the report on the amendment of regulation 1049/2001 on access to documents has accepted some important amendments tabled by me, in particular those on financial and budgetary transparency, on the beneficiaries of european funds, on how community money is spent and on how european policies are implemented - all accessible via an internet database. other amendments tabled by me are contained in the report, laying down rules for access to information in electronic form in european databases, rules for limiting exceptions to access to documents, particularly where they relate to european legislative procedures, and rules for overcoming the veto power of member states over the publication of documents. the alde group will therefore vote in favour of the cashman report and i hope that the majority of this parliament will support it, despite the opposition of some members who have led their group to follow the interests of economic, industrial and bureaucratic lobbies or to be entrenched in the defence of caste and its secrets. as the alde group, we call on the european commission and the council to accept the european parliament's proposals and to launch the negotiations under the danish presidency with determination, so that we can finally make those steps forward to assert the fundamental and democratic right of the citizens to know in order to be able to decide.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the cashman report on public access to european institutions' documents takes account of a fundamental value, enshrined in the treaty, which is that of transparency. the provisions for the implementation of this right are contained in regulation 1049/2001, which is intended to be amended by this legislative procedure. in its proposal the commission expresses an 'open' position, which i believe the rapporteur wants to extend far beyond the objective of transparency, putting at risk the protection of personal and sensitive data. mr cashman also defines 'document' as all data and content which is in any way connected with the policies, measures and decisions of all the eu institutions, including preparatory, confidential and informal documents, i.e. any piece of information. the "space to think" is thus minimized. i believe that the value of transparency and democratic participation of citizens in the life of the institutions is fundamental, but it should be reconciled with other fundamental values, such as the protection of personal and sensitive data and concern official documents and not just the procedure for the adoption of decisions.
the agenda includes the report by knut fleckenstein, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (com ((2010) 0611 c7-0343/2010 2010/0303 ((cod)) (a7-0372/2011)
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the honourable members very much for their mostly very positive remarks about the work of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). how many agencies do we have in europe? close to 30; and emsa is one of the most efficient and well-functioning agencies. these discussions and mr fleckenstein’s report make a valuable contribution to fine-tuning emsa’s task and also to making all stakeholders and partners aware of the available possibilities to use information held by emsa and of how cooperation can be improved as regards the fight against piracy and the better functioning of maritime business. the commission enthusiastically supports the development of the european maritime safety agency. of course there are limits, as you understand very well. everything depends on human and financial resources and under the current circumstances there is not a very big increase to be expected in these resources. but, within these resources, we can regroup and reorganise the work as well.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 december 2011 at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the roadmap to a single european transport area towards a competitive and sustainable transport policy (2011/2096 ((ini)) (a7-0425/2011)
mr president, tomorrow we will vote and adopt this strategic direction for the future of transport, but we already have some legislative acts on the table. i congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that in just three months he has succeeded in converging an important document which will keep us in touch for the foreseeable future. i would like to recall the following essential points: the creation of a genuine single market in all transport sectors, because administrative and technical barriers discourage competition by preventing the cost of transport services from falling. the reference is clearly to the railway sector, whose situation is unacceptable 25 years after the adoption of the single act. the list of barriers to this sector is a luxury we cannot afford at a time when the market is the way out and the means of reviving our economy. i am thinking in particular of the opening up of national passenger transport markets, the creation of a european regulator, the implementation of rtms technology throughout the tnt network. the infrastructure was mentioned, the cross-border infrastructure in particular, and of course the last mile link between the nodes and the axes. the financing of infrastructure is unthinkable because the funds entered in the budget will only enable us to achieve what is planned: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the dossier we have, called the projet bond, deals with these guarantees, but we want to go beyond road safety, because we have to consider all aspects of the problem: driver, medium, infrastructure and their interaction. the single sky, finally, the technological pillar cesar, which must be completed, but at the same time we must work on a single governance. the commissioner has assured us that there will be ambitious proposals next year, and we are really looking forward to them.
in writing. the white paper on transport aims to improve the quality of transport in europe. mobility plays a key role in the internal market as it is a prerequisite for economic development and growth. the challenge is to develop sustainable transport, but we must also aim to build an efficient intermodal transport network. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport system is truly competitive in all transport sectors, and the road transport sector, which in some member states is one of the pillars of the production and economic system, is facing a number of particular difficulties. in this connection, i am in favour of the creation of an authority with responsibility for road transport, which will be able to promote the harmonization of the member states in areas such as environmental sustainability, safety, vocational training and certification, accompanying the process of liberalization and solving the challenges of the sector, in a way similar to what has been considered to be done in rail transport.
author of the book. - mr president, i am honoured to have been the initiator of this debate in the house. it seems to me that european prisons suffer from at least two problems. the first is that there is a great difficulty in getting the instruments of european democracy into these institutions. the human rights of prisoners are violated, and the dignity of the person is violated, both in relation to the prisoners and to those who work there, such as the prison guards. prisons are overcrowded, a symbol of the lack of investment: people are crowded and the door is closed. knowledge of prison regulations is scarce, whereas they should be distributed and transparently known to all. the principle of re-education which prisons should assume is being abdicated, even by no longer facilitating work for prisoners within the prison. there is little transparency, little openness to citizens, schools, ngos! the cuts threaten essential services and staff training and we have a general lack of interest from the media and politics. i'll move on to the second point. personally, following the initiative launched by marco pannella in italy, i have visited two prisons every august for three years - the symbolically most holiday-filled day - and have been struck by the lack of a european dimension in prisons. there is no exchange of best practice, and there are few opportunities for comparison between staff and operators from the various european countries. i therefore welcome the publication of this green paper, which will help to clarify a number of points: how to improve mutual trust and, of course, prison conditions; how to link the conditions of detention with the european precautionary order, the european arrest warrant, the conditions of minors, the power of inspection, the rights of family visits and all the activities of cultural mediators, which is necessary. the council is here today and many answers depend on it. it is a test of civilization, of european identity. prisons will always be prisons. i do not think that the solution lies in emptying them, they must cease to be those dark corners of european rights and responsibilities.
author of the book. - mr president, there is no doubt that one of the indicators of the degree of civilization in a society is the conditions of prisoners. overcrowding is a constant feature of many member states, also because of the considerable presence of nationals from third countries: the number of prisoners is particularly significant, some 650,000. there is a right, as well as a duty, to serve the sentence on the part of the prisoner, provided, of course, that the dignity and decency of the person are guaranteed. we believe that there should be a uniform and homogeneous treatment and we believe that cooperation and trust between member states can only exist if there is a uniform treatment of prisoners. it's not like that! there are some particularly complex situations in the member states which will need to be investigated further. of course, these are questions of awaiting trial and pretrial detention, which are not always used with caution and prudence in many member states. there is also the question of reintegration into employment, rehabilitation and social redemption, because these are people who must be given a chance. there is the problem of hard prison for those who have been guilty of serious crimes - first and foremost mafia, organised crime and terrorism. in these cases, of course, the attention threshold must always remain very high. mutual recognition in judicial matters between member states can be useful. we would like the commission and the council to show more courage by identifying this priority in the list of measures to be implemented - why not - with more means and more resources to expand and modernise prison facilities - there is a specific provision in the stockholm programme. at the same time, member states must also provide for alternative measures to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners: dignity and decency must always be offered to the person.
mr president, commissioner, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the union's priorities, and that is why i believe that prisoners should be guaranteed dignified conditions, in full respect of human rights, but as we know, this is incompatible with most european prisons. the problem of overcrowding is common to almost all member states and there are even member states whose prisons hold inmates at more than 100% of their capacity. it would of course be useful, also at european level, to have common minimum standards on prison conditions and a proper strategy to deal with prison overcrowding. a specific problem that deserves appropriate consideration is that of minors in prison, with their mothers: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the united kingdom. all this, of course, with full respect for the victims and the injured parties and without forgetting the principle of the certainty of the penalty, which must remain a priority and a key principle of our legal systems and of democracy itself. the rapporteur agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8)).
answer blue card. i don't understand the question. i didn't mention the arrest warrant. i agree with mr sinclaire that conditions in most european prisons are not dignified, but perhaps mr sinclaire wanted to make a statement, not so much a question to me.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on international trade and its rapporteur, mr cutaş, for this interim report. first, the object of this consent procedure is an amendment to the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan concerning trade in textiles. its only objective is to ensure that textile exports from the eu to uzbekistan would get most-favoured-nation treatment. so let us keep clearly in mind that we are talking about an agreement that gives legal certainty to the eu and does not grant any benefits to uzbekistan itself. the commission is well aware of the problem of child labour in the cotton sector in uzbekistan and fully shares parliament’s concerns in this respect. we have already been monitoring for quite some time uzbekistan’s compliance with its obligations in the field of child labour under the conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo) and the relevant united nations conventions. the eu regularly relays concerns about forced child labour in the country in its political dialogue with uzbekistan. the country has taken some steps to address the problem, notably by ratifying two ilo conventions concerning child labour and by setting up a national legislative framework against forced labour and child labour. however, what matters is not only the ratification but the actual implementation of these conventions. in this respect, it is a fact that the use of child labour in the cotton sector in uzbekistan is still an issue of concern. therefore the commission will, in close cooperation with the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, continue to monitor the situation and actively scale up its efforts to urge the uzbek government to take the necessary steps to fully implement the ilo conventions. we undertook a mission to uzbekistan in november 2011. the eu team enjoyed the full cooperation of the uzbek authorities and discussions with international organisations confirmed some positive changes in certain regions during this year’s harvest. the uzbek authorities showed new openness to discuss the issue and there have been some positive signs about cooperation with the ilo. the uzbek side emphasised that the problem can only be handled by means of a gradual approach, notably by restructuring and diversifying the agricultural sector so as to reduce dependency on the cotton sector. we fully agree with parliament – and this has been our message to the uzbek authorities – that the best way to have a clear and accurate picture of the situation would be to allow the ilo to undertake a mission to the country. the commission is open to make the necessary arrangements with parliament to jointly monitor the situation in cooperation with the relevant international institutions and to regularly assess the situation with a view to resuming this consent procedure as soon as reasonably possible. while we fully understand the justified human rights concerns, we are of the view that an agreement that serves only the eu deserves to receive the consent of the european parliament in a timely manner.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr commissioner, it is true that there has been a bilateral agreement since 1990 which has yet to be formalised by this parliament, but how can a protocol on textile trade be approved when the disturbing doubts expressed so clearly by the rapporteur, mr cutaş, remain? in the report by the rapporteur of the committee on international trade and the committee on foreign affairs, the various political groups have all reached a compromise to express with one voice our condemnation of forced child labour and the demand for respect for international monitoring bodies, such as the ilo, which have the right to monitor free from any coercion and threat. the fact that the ambassador has not given any answers and that the commission itself, after so many years, is not able to give concrete, clear and certain answers continues to fuel the doubts that have plagued our debate in recent weeks. we all know that the volume of trade in textiles between our countries is reaching a residual percentage. but tomorrow's vote is symbolic, because it will send a signal not only to uzbekistan but to all our trading partners in central asia. international trade is an instrument of foreign policy, guaranteeing respect for fair and shared rules, which are necessary for a fair and competitive market capable of developing world economic relations, but also of respecting the rights of individuals. parliament has no right to condemn a country, but it wants and has a duty to ask for the approval of the trade protocol to be suspended until the uzbek government allows international observers to enter its territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr. president, i will start with a poem by an uzbek poet, jogdor obid, (translated from english) "little hands, little slaves, they dream of hot, sunny days, but they suffer from coughing and when they walk they tremble. little hands and little slaves, childish thoughts, sweet dreams, but all this ends dead and buried". this is the testimony of jogdor obid, who describes the cotton harvesting by children in uzbekistan. it happened in the soviet union, some things have changed, some things haven't. for example, there has been no change in power, the current uzbek president is the same president who was in 1991 at the head of the uzbek soviet socialist republic. other things have changed, the situation in the cotton fields for children has gotten worse, it's gotten much worse! jogdor obid tells us in other interviews about children as young as seven who are working in slavery, literally bought and sold in uzbekistan, to help harvest cotton. this is an intolerable situation and the demands are as stated above: access to the ilo inspectors; uzbekistan to be consistent with the values of human rights, which are also enshrined in the country's constitution; the commission should propose a traceability mechanism for cotton harvested free of the trade in children and their slavery. the commission will also be consulted, also on the basis of the ilo findings, on any decision to initiate the suspension of gsp privileges for uzbekistan. we have it with the gsp+ for sri lanka, you could think of it for uzbekistan as well. of course, no agreement by the european parliament, with its new powers in lisbon, on this protocol is without regard to the increasingly close values of the european union, including our international trade policy.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we will support this report and thank you for the work you have done. i'm the seventh or eighth person to come in and say the same thing over and over again. if the commission really believed that what is being discussed in this parliament was of any importance, it would intervene tomorrow, not with some reports, not with some threats, not with some proposals for measures. if it is true - and the whole hemicycle, from right to left, says it - that hundreds of thousands of children are being forced to work in the cotton fields (and i think the evidence now tells us that it is true), we shall vote in favour of this report. but if tomorrow morning the european commission does not take a concrete initiative against the uzbek government, it means that we have wasted our time this evening, that we are contributing to the loss of credibility of parliament and the commission and the european institutions, and that we have on our conscience a few hundred thousand minors who, next year, if the debate goes on so calmly, will continue to do what they have been forced to do for decades. so we support this report, but i hope that at eight o'clock, when the debate is closed, and then with the vote tomorrow, the matter will not be put in a drawer and i hope that the commission will intervene, not the day after tomorrow, but tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, we have a number of facts which unfortunately suggest that human rights and freedom of expression are constantly being violated in kazakhstan. i will give you a concrete example to illustrate this point: on 26 october 2011, asan amilov, a cameraman, and orken bizenov, a journalist, were the victims of an armed attack in the district of mańğystau. their news outlet, stan.kz, started its news activities in march 2007, with a network of correspondents throughout central asia, providing serious and timely information about what was happening in kazakhstan and neighboring countries and arousing great interest among citizens. it is certainly no coincidence that the bombers took the journalists' laptop which contained important video evidence related to the strikes of oil company workers in mańğystau. this is just the latest of many examples of intimidation that too often involve public authorities. i call on the commission to take a firm stand against these practices and to take due account in the european union's negotiations with these countries of their attempts to violate freedom of the press. finally, i support the proposal to organise an eu-wide round table between the kazakh authorities, the workers' representatives of the province of mańğystau and the representatives of the oil companies to find a solution to the serious situation that has emerged from the strikes of may 2011.
in writing. four years after its first drafting, the european parliament is once again giving its opinion on the state of implementation of the eu strategy for central asia. in the light of important internal and global developments, europe is taking stock of its achievements in its relations with this part of the world. this report stresses the need for a renewed approach to strengthening long-term cooperation and a mutual strategic commitment to deepen political, social and economic relations. the text stresses the need to maintain a high level of commitment in all areas of society, including through increased financial resources, funds and programmes. the report also highlights the institutional value of the acp as a basis for exchanges with these countries and of parliamentary cooperation committees as instruments capable of providing a regular basis for strengthening bilateral relations with the countries of the region. in short, the new strategy plays a key role in creating an increasingly stable cooperation with this sensitive region, with which dialogue and mutual exchange of knowledge will ensure ambitious results in terms of economic cooperation, development promotion and the defence of human, social and cultural rights.
the agenda for the joint debate includes:- the commission statement on the recent council decisions and the commission's review of the egf regulation, and- the report by barbara matera, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2009/019 fr/renault from france) (com (2011) 0420 c7-0193/2011 2011/2158 bud)) (a7-0396/2011)
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, almost 23 million people are unemployed in europe today and more than 113 million are at risk of poverty and exclusion. in this context, the european union plays a crucial role in financing areas of social investment which are difficult to support by the member states, whose finances are being put to the test by the economic crisis which is weighing heavily on us all. every year, instruments such as the european social fund, the globalisation adjustment fund, the progress programme - to name just a few - provide support to millions of european citizens, improving their skills, broadening their employment prospects, promoting self-employment and labour mobility. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a new fund, the main objective of which is to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of changes in world trade flows by co-financing active labour market policies. in the light of the rapid escalation of the economic and financial crisis in 2008, the european commission proposed a temporary derogation from the igf regulation due to expire at the end of this year, in order to broaden the scope of the igf to provide support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic crisis and by increasing the igf co-financing rate from 50 to 65% for member states. i have seen from my own experience as the igf standing rapporteur for the committee on budgets that the adoption of this amendment has allowed the fund to be used more extensively. in fact, in the 28 months of the igf's existence, before the entry into force of this derogation, only 15 applications for funding were submitted and involved, i say "only" 18 000 redundant workers. but it was just after the approval of this derogation that the applications quadrupled. member states also indicated that without the temporary derogation it would have been impossible to support 45,000 workers made redundant by their companies due to the economic and financial crisis. moreover, with the increased co-financing rate to 65%, the burden of financing borne by the member states has enabled them to support their workers and their businesses in a timely manner. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's economic forecasts foresee that a substantial recovery in labour market conditions at european level is not expected before 2013. these assessments, together with the difficulties facing member states' budgets as a result of fiscal consolidation efforts, therefore force us to consider the current extension of the deadline for this month to be effective from 1 january 2012 to be necessary. unfortunately, however, the examination of this proposal by the council on 2 december resulted in several delegations - the netherlands, germany, sweden, denmark, the united kingdom, latvia, the czech republic and slovakia - opposing the commission's proposal and blocking the extension of this derogation. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this act of the council is truly irresponsible. the fund is seen by public opinion as an important solidarity instrument for the financial support of our citizens and of workers made redundant. we cannot allow the council to block the extension of the extension and i hope that all members will symbolically support the report which will be in favour of the 3,500 redundant workers at renault.
the rapporteur. - madam president, first of all i am pleased with the warmth with which the debate in the house today was approached by my colleagues, because this fund deserved it, but above all its objective and its argument deserved it: we are talking about solidarity with the european citizens! we are now at the end of 2011 and i want to conclude with a final speech in the chamber with good wishes for the coming year. my first wish is that the next danish presidency of the council will put on its political agenda the importance of supporting the economic crisis derogation for this fund until 2013. the second wish is that the european commission may continue to support the extension of the scope of this fund, so as to include the agricultural sector, which will certainly suffer as a result of the economic crisis which is expected to continue in the coming years, by also supporting the agricultural sector. finally, i would like to appeal to my colleagues - and i regret that some of them have already left - to support this report today, which will result in a disbursement of some eur 24 million to renault and consequently to the french member state. this is a great sign of the solidarity, unity and cohesion of the european parliament, because i am convinced - and i think you are absolutely convinced too - that this parliament cannot and must not be the forum for the release of all the inaccuracies, choices and reforms that are taking place within the member states. i therefore trust in the sense of responsibility of all colleagues: i do not want to and cannot believe that some people will abstain or vote against the renault case simply because they want and must follow the priority of the electoral calendar of their own member state! i do not think so, i am sure they will be responsible and will enable us to give new vigour and credibility to this fund which would be seriously undermined if our colleagues did not vote unanimously in favour of the disbursement of these funds.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the members for their comments. i have three short remarks: the first on the crisis derogation. fortunately the misunderstanding was clarified. yes, the commission wanted an extension until the end of 2013, but this was voted down by a blocking minority, including some states which benefited from the scheme. there were good reasons for extending the scheme due to the developments in the labour market, with a sudden recent acceleration of applications – two thirds of all the applications came in 2010 and 2011. i can agree with ms ţicǎu that countries in eastern europe undergoing the so-called transformation from the old system to the new system know how painful this might be without globalisation, as our countries can neither be termed developed or under-developed parts of the world; this was rather a mis-developed part of the world, with a lot of industrial stock on the ground but completely useless in terms of a market economy. my second remark concerns renault. thank you, mr gauzès, for explaining the action from the local point of view. i can only say that i know a special unit has been set up by renault to deal with the issue. our prerogative is to monitor and contact, but i can assure all of you that, from the legal point of view, this case fulfilled all the criteria of the european globalisation fund application. what matters is the future: as the globalisation fund is on the table in the proposal for 2014-2020, this means that we fully understand the added value of the fund in terms of making the reactions of the member states more durable and of improved quality in terms of active labour market policy. what is clear from the mid-term review is that exactly 42% of the workers covered by the scheme under this crisis derogation were able very quickly to find places on the job market. so this is working and is probably very conducive to the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market. i agree fully with those who ask for a much quicker response by the globalisation fund. this is as slow as the solidarity fund, which is also part of the proposal. what was very controversial – and here the remarks of mr daerden and ms cornelissen are relevant – is whether to extend it to farming. this was done in a very clear context, and the context, as i can reveal, was going into the mercosur trade liberalisation talks with insecurity in the rural areas around the impact of trade liberalisation on the farming community. for my colleagues, and especially the one responsible for this major deal on trade liberalisation, this was a kind of insurance cover for entering into the trade liberalisation agreements with countries with more competitive pricing for agricultural products. this was the context of the decision to risk the extension of the globalisation fund to farming. but this is not at the cost of industrial workers, because we have our estimates in the pipeline, and i think the numbers proposed could be adequate as insurance for both areas: industry and farming. but i can agree with mr alvaro and the others that this is keine wunderwaffe: this is one of the tools in the toolbox for dealing with a crisis: valuable, therefore extended and should be defended, because this is also a tangible and visible sign in several corners of the european union that the european institutions are useful, credible and could help.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the commission by maria da graça carvalho, bendt bendtsen, paul rübig, krišjānis kariņš, pilar del castillo vera, romana jordan cizelj, on behalf of the ppe group, fiona hall, sir graham watson, on behalf of the alde group, claude turmes, on behalf of the green/efa group, anni podimata, jo leinen, teresa riera madurell, silvia-adriana ţicău, britta thomsen, on behalf of the s&d group, on the intelligent energy - europe (iee) programme under the multiannual financial framework (o-000244/2011 b7-0668/2011), and - the oral question to the commission by rolandas paksas and juozas imbrasas, on behalf of the edf group, on the intelligent energy - europe ii programme and the multiannual financial perspective (o-000223/2011 b7-0672/2011)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. over 500 projects funded, more than 3,000 partners involved - most of them small and medium-sized enterprises - not to mention the added value that the programme itself has brought to the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors. like my colleagues, i am concerned about the future of the programme, which has played a central role in raising awareness, exchanging good practice and implementing the european union's energy policies. i therefore ask the european commission what it intends to do to continue the programme, because to stop it would be to frustrate the many hopes; i would like to ask you, finally, what is the heading of the multiannual plan which will provide the necessary funding.
member of the commission. − madam president, you do not need to convince me or the commission about the usefulness of a programme that is performing so well. this usefulness and cost-effectiveness can be seen in a programme with a not-so-big budget of eur 743 million that still has a huge leverage effect and impact on energy efficiency and renewable energy in the european union. as regards the involvement of small and medium-size companies, only part of the 3 000 partners – that is 1 500 partners – can be classified as small and medium-sized companies. the position of parliament was not only visible as regards the awards; parliament was able to increase the budget for this programme for 2011 by eur 10 million and for 2012 by eur 7.5 million. this is a commitment which is expressed in budgetary lines as well. the programme will not disappear. the commitment cannot disappear because this is so conducive to the goals of the 2020 strategy, and energy efficiency is among the seven priority areas of the strategy for the future of europe. we also have to respond to the need for mainstreaming programmes. mainstreaming is clearly indicated in all the evaluations of various programmes of the european union. given the constraints of not being able to spend more money, we need in future to look at better spending. this is about the mainstreaming of programmes, not the disappearance of a programme that is performing so well. what is the future of this programme? it will be placed under a consistent framework which links research development and market update within the growing envelope for horizon 2020 – growing from eur 50 billion to eur 80 billion. the energy component is classified as secure, clean and efficient energy. we cannot give up on the issue of energy security on the continent, on which we will be so dependent in the coming years. energy security is an important aspect of horizon 2020. it is clearly the place for an energy component which is classified as clean and efficient energy; it is the place for intelligent energy and for a dedicated element of this energy component. so it is going to be a very visible commitment, in monetary terms as well. of course this is not the only place to find money for intelligent, renewable and efficient energy. as you probably know, this is high in the hierarchy of the goals of the structural funds, which attract a much larger amount of money in so-called interim regions, namely the regions with a per capita gdp of less than 90% of the european union average. there is a very limited range of goals, and energy efficiency is the number one area of the structural funds to which funding is to be committed in this type of region of europe. so we are looking at the position of intelligent energy in the multiannual framework. this could be more than eur 1 billion instead of eur 700 million, for example; i cannot give exact figures today, but i know that this is a growing envelope. therefore, visibility and financial commitment is to be guaranteed in the multiannual framework for 2014-2020. the role of the european parliament is very clear in shaping the future by shaping the rules of the game in this component of the multiannual framework.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european union has developed a series of ambitious legislative measures and strategic decisions to make europe a competitive and sustainable territory. however, stakeholder involvement and activation is necessary in all policies. this is why the contribution of the intelligent energy programme, through its executive agency (eaci) in the field of energy efficiency, is crucial. it should be noted that the eei programme is of strategic importance for the economic recovery of the union and for the revival of crucial issues such as energy security, the environment and health. however, i believe that simplification of the rules for access to funding is essential to allow for greater participation of small and mediumsized enterprises and young researchers in research projects. we cannot forget the achievements we have made, but we must also face the new challenges created by a global market where our direct competitors are china and the united states. i hope in particular that the next info day, on 24 january 2012, will encourage the participation of researchers from those european areas which are the taillights in the ranking of grants awarded, in order to promote the importance of equal opportunities between researchers and coordinators from the various regions of the community.
the agenda includes the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on european union competition policy (2011/2094 ((ini)) (a7-0424/2011).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a serious competition policy should benefit everyone, first and foremost consumers, who are the final users of the market. the report deals with a number of areas which are still problematic, such as energy, telecommunications and banking. the commission has also taken the view that the community's financial resources should be used to support the development of the regions concerned. however, there is one area which has not been mentioned and on which i put a question to the commission, which answered me just this week. i am referring to the insurance sector, particularly in relation to car and motorcycle policies. the commission considers that there are no problems as there are many players operating on the market. i believe that it is not just quantity that determines competition, but also and above all quality. in italy, the latter seems to be lacking, although it is true, as it is true, that in recent years there has been a general, widespread and extensive increase in policies, with obvious damage to all citizens and consumers. the banking sector also requires special attention, as in recent months several european countries have been forced to intervene to save a number of institutions that were in danger of going bankrupt. i would not like the big banks to take advantage of this again to implement policies - often agreed between them - which do not take the slightest account of the real needs of ordinary customers and citizens. even in basic banking services there appear to be non-transparent agreements, which keep prices high in a general way. this eliminates the possibility of having a real and effective alternative, and it undermines the minimum and essential rules of competition.
madam president, i would like this parliament to express its solidarity with the people of my region, sicily, who have been hit by a terrible flood in recent weeks. thousands of people in the province of messina are still out of their homes, and three people have died, including an 11-year-old boy. this is mainly because of the bad habit of not wanting to administer one's territory.
madam president, the management of projects in war zones such as afghanistan is not directly comparable to that in developed countries or countries not affected by conflict, because aid is obviously also hampered by the unstable security situation. however, efforts should be made to understand the reasons for the deficiencies in project management and the related risk factors in order to improve the situation as much as possible. i share the rapporteur's view in this respect, which calls on the commission to assess more carefully the risks of fraud, corruption and non-compliance in relation to the effectiveness of specific projects. it is therefore necessary to increase transparency and accountability in the use of union funds and to help both member states and other donors to avoid common mistakes.
madam president, i voted in favour of mr fleckenstein's report in the full conviction that an important agency such as emsa must have a regulation which sets out clear and precise tasks and highlights the effective division of responsibilities between the agency itself, the european commission and the member states. increasingly, in fact, we are witnessing accidents that pollute our seas, which are also constantly threatened by the increase in maritime transport of dangerous goods and materials, often also in maritime areas that enjoy specific discipline in relation to their natural value - think of the bocche di bonifacio. in this respect, i particularly appreciated the rapporteur's attention to the development of the cleanseanet service and the saveseanet network. the text is very balanced, albeit multifaceted, as it takes into account the need to define the agency's tasks also through additional staffing, but does not place too much burden on the budget, and underlines the importance of using innovative tools such as gmes and sends a positive message regarding support in the field of gender equality policies.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report by mr grosch on the single european transport area, and i thank him for his work. in particular, i welcome the welcome references to the new ten-t guidelines, which will inform the future legislative debate, and the promotion of the use of innovative instruments such as galileo, egnos and gmes. i regret, however, that certain aspects of fundamental importance for the creation of a genuine single european transport area have not been adequately dealt with. in particular, the insular nature of many european regions has not been fully explored, especially as regards the rules applicable to them in the area of public service obligations, which are currently rather confused and difficult to define in relation to the different modes of transport. finally, i found the text lacking in terms of attention to the transport of dangerous goods, which needs to be properly handled and regulated, both in order to avoid terrible accidents and to manage them once they have occurred, also with regard to the levels of responsibility of the parties, institutional and non-institutional, involved.
in writing. − i strongly support this text because, as my report on a new strategy for afghanistan denounced one year ago, it clearly underlines that the current arrangements for managing eu funds in afghanistan are inadequate. afghanistan is amongst the recipient countries receiving the most civilian aid from the eu general budget. in the period 2002-2010 the combined eu (european community and member states) budget for aid to afghanistan totalled around eur 8 billion, but a significant proportion of the eu aid was lost along the distribution chain. the main reasons for this are: waste, excessive use of intermediaries, security costs, overbilling and corruption. i strongly believe that the eu must ensure transparency and accountability in relation to the financial assistance provided to the afghan government, international organisations and local ngos, in order to ensure the coherence of aid and the success of afghanistan’s reconstruction and development.
in writing. the european union must continue to support afghanistan vigorously. the shortcomings identified in recent years in terms of democracy and corruption must be addressed urgently. it is crucial to have a supreme audit institution that is fully independent of the executive in financial and operational terms and has sufficient capacity and funding to carry out the financial audit. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the report by mr geier, which i voted for, aims to define the general parameters for the control of the european budget in respect of the funds allocated to afghanistan, their use, the positive and negative implications and relations with other institutions such as the us agencies dealing with funds invested by the usa and the un. the continuing evolution of the afghan political situation requires serious help from europe to enable the development of a country which must be steered towards a genuine democracy with rights and duties. the control of the management of the funds is therefore essential for the implementation of the targeted projects needed to achieve the objectives set.
in writing. - ten years have passed since the start of operations against the taliban in afghanistan and the world economic and political situation has changed considerably. the united states has decided to gradually withdraw its forces from the country by 2014, while on the other hand the economic and budgetary crisis of european states is leading to a contraction in military spending. for these reasons, it is necessary to identify best spending practices. the question of coordination of aid remains a matter of concern. many reports and oral testimony point to the lack of effective coordination of international donor efforts. this leads to some overlap and the failure to adapt projects to afghan needs. this vote will give greater impetus to coordination and analysis of contingent needs.
in writing. − in the current crisis context, the union's priorities must be to strengthen the internal market through a sound and effective competition policy that can support european economic growth in all sectors. competition policy must make the best use of the instruments at the union's disposal, without prejudice to the principles of competition and free markets and consumer protection. i believe that a solution to the failure of banks must be found by establishing a european regulatory framework which guarantees common intervention rules and monitoring by the commission. finally, i hope that an agreement will be reached with the council to establish a dialogue on competition policy with parliament, so that parliament is given due weight as the institution representing all citizens.
in writing. − the competition policy implemented by the european union, in my view, has brought numerous benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has emerged as an essential tool for removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. in particular, i believe that the provisional state aid regime has been a very positive initial reaction to the effects of the recent financial and economic crisis. with specific reference to state aid in the financial sector, i agree with the rapporteur in calling on the commission to link its extension beyond 2011 to stricter constraints linked to a reduction in the composition and size of the balance sheet of financial institutions. while i appreciate the role played so far by the commission in minimising distortions in the banking system through a balanced reading of the european state aid rules, i believe that it is necessary to introduce a new permanent regulatory framework for state aid, with particular reference to the financial sector, and to submit, in a timely manner, the relevant legislative proposal in order to regulate at european level the resolution of banks in bankruptcy.
in writing. - the report tackles a sensitive issue such as competition policy in a difficult period, the present one, in which the crisis has led in some cases to member states entering the private economy with aid and forms of financial support out of the ordinary. the report rightly stresses the need to keep the european economic landscape as open as possible, all the more so because in times of crisis the economy needs, in order to bounce back, freedom of initiative and not protectionism and state intervention. i share the opportunity to promote exchanges between the european commission and consumer associations, and i welcome the proposal to introduce new rules to regulate state aid in some key areas such as financial aid. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that competition policy is a very important instrument for the recovery of the global economy, which has been hampered by the previous economic and budgetary crises. this policy has brought many benefits to the various member states in terms of consumer welfare and the removal of barriers to the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. in this respect, state aid has played an essential role in improving the functioning of markets and mitigating the effects of the crisis on the real economy. i believe that state aid should be allocated in such a way as not to distort competition and that resources should be invested in research and innovation. in order to further stimulate competition, it is also necessary to increase transparency in markets for the benefit of consumers and the wider economic system.
in writing. - the provisional state aid regime has been a positive factor in the fight against the crisis, but it cannot be prolonged too long. a new permanent regulatory framework on state aid is needed to address the shortcomings in the legal system that were identified before the crisis. particular attention should be paid to the financial sector. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − competition policy and the strengthening of the internal market must be one of the priorities of the european union's action, especially at a time of crisis such as the present one when it is crucial to make the most of the potential that the union offers us. i hope that the new strategy will also strengthen protection for crossborder transactions, in particular for online products and services, and support financial inclusion. given the specificities of the various sectors, such as financial services, differentiation should be made to better cover specific needs. but i hope that in doing so the principles of competition and the free market will be taken into account as well, because a more protected and responsible consumer must be able to count on the efficiencies that an open and competitive market provides.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis that emerged in autumn 2008 has not yet been overcome, and in recent months financial turmoil and fears of recession have again intensified. in this context, competition policy can be an added value and can become a crisis management tool. the climate is favourable and supportive of citizenship, as is shown by the activity of consumer associations in the field of european competition law. the vote is a step towards greater price transparency, which is essential to stimulate competition in the single market and to give consumers a real choice. among the many measures to be taken, it is also necessary to establish a system of benefits to ensure transparency in the pricing of services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, although renault's behaviour may be considered unfair, it is the egf instrument which supports the reintegration of workers affected by the crisis into the labour market. i am voting in favour of this because otherwise many french workers would be deprived of this support.
in writing. - my group has always fought for the utmost transparency of european union legislation and decision-making mechanisms. i am therefore in favour of wide access to eu documents by citizens. the report goes far beyond these objectives and deals with matters which, in my view, cannot possibly be the subject of such a regulation. the secret and preparatory documents are an example of this exaggeration.
in writing. − european citizens expect efficient public services in the fields of health, education, transport and security. however, we see in many member states the failure to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management. in recent years, waste management has become a major social problem: the difficulty in managing these issues has negative effects not only on human health and well-being, but also on the wider environment. although the union has adopted draft legislation to ensure a legal framework to address the issue, an analysis of waste management policies reveals conflicting information: some member states, including denmark, the netherlands, austria and sweden, are very advanced, while many other eu countries show a significant delay in implementing waste strategies that have led to serious violations of eu legislation. i think that the urgency of implementing a coherent waste management policy in europe is clear. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the commission's proposal for a more proactive waste management verification procedure combined with an early warning system for compliance is valid.
in writing. - the report is clearly acceptable in its basic structure. however, there are parts of it with which i cannot agree. the first criticism is that the amendments to the regulation of the european maritime safety agency will open up the possibility for europe to offer technical and scientific assistance on maritime safety to candidate countries and neighbourhood countries. so turkey could be among those who would benefit from emsa assistance, which i do not see as a positive thing. the second aspect which i find objectionable is the loss of power by the member states to the commission within the agency's management board. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. the report on the european maritime safety agency was voted on today in plenary. the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up in response to the oil spill caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika. the agency started its activities in march 2003. the emsa's founding regulation has been amended three times. the commission's latest proposal should aim to introduce lasting changes, although more time will be needed for negotiations. the report argues that emsa's increased tasks will need to be realistically reflected in its budget and staffing so that it can cope with the new tasks proposed by the commission: contribute to traffic monitoring systems with a view to achieving a european maritime area without barriers; assist the commission and the member states in preventing pollution from oil spills by increasing the role of the existing cleanseanet; assisting neighbouring countries in reducing pollution risks.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency was set up in response to the oil spill caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika and started its activities in march 2003. the emsa's founding regulation has been amended three times. the latter proposal should aim to introduce lasting changes, although more time will be needed for negotiations. the parliament's resolution of 7 october 2010 states that emsa's mandate 'should be extended from ships to offshore installations' and calls for 'the possible conferral of new functions of this kind to be reflected in emsa's budget and staff'. the additional tasks of emsa must be realistically reflected in the agency's budget and staff. otherwise, its essential function of promoting maritime safety could be jeopardised.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing the emsa agency. we need more cooperation between the agency, the member states and the commission, so that emsa can provide us with technical, operational and scientific assistance in the areas of response to pollution caused by ships, as well as the response to marine pollution caused by oil from oil and gas installations and support the member states' marine pollution response mechanisms. as regards the agency's competence in satellite matters - gmes - i would like to stress that, in view of the large national resources deployed and the satellite systems already in orbit today, this is a very sensitive issue for the governance of european satellite systems; i therefore do not think it appropriate to extend the agency's remit to governance of space resources. given the importance of the management of the sea (and in particular of the southern maritime frontier of the union) in terms of international policy and security, i believe that the role of the member states in the governance of the agency should be safeguarded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr fleckenstein amending the regulation establishing emsa, the european maritime safety agency. by clarifying the agency's tasks more specifically than in the past, the changes introduced are aimed at achieving greater efficiency and lower costs: the various tasks of emsa will therefore include assistance in preventing pollution from offshore oil and gas installations, combating piracy and illegal maritime traffic, and strengthening traffic monitoring systems to achieve a european maritime area without barriers.
in writing. - the situation in syria is not, unfortunately, the simplest. the discussions in this area are becoming more and more heated because of the continuing criticism. since last spring, we have been experiencing a period of hard clashes and demonstrations all over the syrian territory, in order to obtain something that we, all of us, are exporters and custodians of, democracy. in these parts of the world, sometimes the word democracy, people power, seems like a utopia, something so far away and so unattainable that it's considered a threat. those in power cannot conceive of cooperation, equality and peaceful dialogue between the parties for the sake of building a better state and for their own seat, for their own prestige, they are willing to risk the destruction of their own people. the current situation is still dramatic, and there is a need for greater respect and an immediate solution.
in writing. - we have voted today a compromise resolution by various political groups strongly condemning the repression of civilians by the damascus government. i personally follow developments in syria with concern, particularly as i consider it necessary to give serious thought to the prospects for a way out of the crisis before even looking for solutions that could have potentially even more destabilising long-term consequences. while it is absolutely essential and necessary to ensure respect for freedom of expression and above all the safety of citizens, it is equally important to consider the perspective of the international community and in particular to ensure that, if there is a change at the top of the institutional hierarchy, this does not happen by replacing officials who would disturb the already fragile political balance of the region.
in writing. − in the light of the continuing deterioration of the situation in syria, eu efforts to increase pressure on the assad regime continue. the eu has been saying since last august that assad has lost all legitimacy and must step aside. the list of persons subject to restrictive measures was extended last november, in parallel with a suspension of european investment bank loans to syria. sanctions in the oil and investment sectors were adopted in september and strengthened on 1 december. measures have also been added concerning telephone and internet interception equipment. the possibility of creating a humanitarian corridor in syria has also been recently discussed. in conclusion, and in the light of all that has been said, i believe that strengthening the eu-turkey dialogue on the prospects for the syrian crisis could be the best solution, given the key role played by ankara.
in writing. - i voted against this report. certainly, many of the points it contains are more than agreeable. i refer in particular to the paragraphs calling for the liberalization of the railways, which would particularly benefit the italian railway market. however, the report's unquestioning support for the ten-t project is problematic. this project, which concerns the construction of trans-european rail, motorway and river networks, is showing increasingly critical aspects. this is a "pharaonic" project whose feasibility is in doubt, both from the financial and the design point of view, as evidenced by the slow and ambiguous progress made so far. as the lega nord has always maintained, our territory does not need grandiose, unrealizable works, but rather greater attention to its concrete and immediate needs. at the moment, the whole management of the ten-t project seems superficial and poorly planned, and that is why i cannot express a favourable opinion on this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a common transport area is an important achievement for the european union and its citizens. i believe that the creation of such a space is essential in order to increase the economic efficiency of the sector and the protection of the environment, but also to ensure better social and employment conditions for the citizens of our community. transport is of fundamental importance to citizens as it ensures their freedom of movement within the union. they also constitute a pillar for the development of the union, for social cohesion between the various member states and help to make the eu a strategic centre for research and innovation. the creation of a single european area is therefore a factor of connection with regional, environmental, social, economic and employment policy. i therefore hope that the transport regulations will be harmonized so that each country can make long-term investments in the sector, so as to allow the economy to recover, especially in the light of the economic and financial crisis which has hit us hard.
in writing. − the citizens of the european union would greatly benefit from the creation of a single european transport area that would remove all barriers between transport modes and national systems and be free from distortions of competition and social dumping. mr grosch's report goes in that direction and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i abstain because, although the objectives are shared, the report does not address issues which in the long term could jeopardise the construction of railway sections which are considered important. as far as italy is concerned, the main problem is that the state railways are showing a lack of interest, probably because they still have a near monopoly on the railway networks. the commission has proposed to strengthen the authority of private coordinators and the european commission in order to oblige disadvantaged local authorities such as rfi to agree to the needs of ten-t projects and their coordinators. such a choice would constitute an interference with the national sovereignty of the member states. the extremely positive part of the text is the choice of the definitive liberalisation of the railway networks which would put an end to the de facto monopoly held by the state railways in our country. as the operator of the rfi railway network and the treni italia operator owned by ferrovie dello stato, they have a de facto monopoly on the national railway networks to the detriment of other operators and therefore of free competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr grosch's own-initiative report, which regulates a crucial area of our activities, which is inevitable and necessary for the functioning of our society. i support and share the objectives that have been set to achieve competitive and efficient transport by 2050 with two steps through intermediate stages in 2020 and 2030, ending the barriers that exist between one member state and another. i support the text of the report, which appears to be homogeneous and unitary, particularly comprehensive, covering the different transport areas (road, rail, air, water) and ensuring sustainability in each of these areas and a coherent and efficient overall network. i am pleased that the various aspects of transport, from the impact on the internal market to innovation, have been addressed, without neglecting road safety. the key point i particularly appreciated in the report was the eco-sustainability aspect, the emphasis on using transport which is more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient.
in writing. - i expressed my support for the text presented by mr grosch which, taking as its starting point the white paper presented by the european commission, sets ten objectives to make the european transport system safer, more competitive and more efficient by 2050, passing through intermediate objectives to be achieved by 2020 and 2030.
in writing. − i support this text because the european parliament has the duty to take action on the treatment of detainees in europe. the european court of human rights has repeatedly condemned eu member states with regard to detention conditions, duration of pre-trial detention and administration of justice. for this reason we ask the eu and the member states to take urgent measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners are respected. it is of fundamental importance to implement minimum standards of detention in all member states. appropriate resources should be granted by the member states to the restructuration of prisons, to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of prisoners and to prepare detainees for their release and social integration. i also agree with the necessity to point out that pre-trial detention remains an exceptional measure to be used under strict conditions and for a limited period of time, in compliance with the fundamental principle of presumption of innocence and of the right not to be deprived of liberty.
in writing. - the european model of civil and democratic coexistence cannot be without conditions of detention which fully respect the rights of individuals. it is therefore right to urge member states to take urgent measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners, in particular the rights of vulnerable persons, are respected and protected. i also agree that common minimum standards of detention should be applied in all member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the interim report on the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan. parliament has every reason to make any changes to the agreement subject to compliance with minimum standards on child labour, given the situation in the former soviet republic where hundreds of thousands of school-age children are being taken away from school to be sent to the cotton fields where they have to participate in the cotton harvest for many months. we must insist that the european union give the green light to the agreement only on condition that uzbekistan accepts monitoring missions from the international labour organisation. the agreement itself would be beneficial to the economic interests of our companies, which would have access to raw materials on favourable terms; however, it is not acceptable that children are exploited in the intensive cotton harvesting and only when uzbekistan is willing to remedy this serious situation can we give our consent to the agreement.
in writing. - it is absolutely out of the question, given the current human rights situation, that the european parliament would give its approval without changes being made to uzbekistan's policies. i fully agree with the rapporteur and therefore i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - i share and support the balanced report by mr cutaş. the strengthening of euro-uzbek relations is an important link in our partnership with asian countries. the european textile industry, which is skilled in the processing of raw materials, can only benefit from free trade with the third exporter, the fifth largest producer of cotton in the world. but closer cooperation, especially in the textile sector, must be based on respect for human rights and for the rights of the child. as the eu presidency acknowledged last june, during the cotton harvest season the uzbek government employs between 200,000 and 2 million children as labour, closing schools and firing teachers who refuse to send pupils to the plantations. this is a matter of grave concern.
in writing. as i said in yesterday's debate, i have confirmed my vote in favour of mr cutaș's report. i would ask the commission to take this important vote seriously and to put all the pressure on the uzbek government to end child labour in the cotton fields. europe cannot make agreements with countries that commit such acts. cotton is a very important raw material for the textile industry in my padania: we must demand that it be collected in a way that respects human rights. children belong in school, not in the fields.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of the amending protocol to a partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan on textiles. the agreement will benefit eu exporters by creating legal certainty for them. the value of european textile exports to uzbekistan is in fact eur 16.4 million. uzbekistan is the world's fifth largest producer of cotton and the third largest exporter of cotton, but within the country, the achievement of human rights is unfortunately still a utopia: it is often the same government - which controls the cotton and textile industries - that uses children as a source of cheap labour. the european union will therefore have to implement a coherent policy towards uzbekistan, which still raises concerns about the human rights situation. valid instruments for change exist, but they must be implemented.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, considering that eu assistance funds are too limited to allow the eu to have an impact in all policy areas in central asia, i agree with the view that the cornerstones of the eu new approach in the region must be human security and regional cooperation. these issues are among the main sources of instability in central asia and can be targeted by eu efforts. in addition to that, i believe an enhanced cooperation between the eu and the five countries of central asia is of mutual strategic interest in order to deepen political and economic relations. furthermore i would like to stress the importance of the implementation of the central asian nuclear weapons free zone by the five central asian republics. the treaty, with its binding commitment to nuclear disarmament by countries that previously hosted nuclear weapons on their territory and that have neighbours with nuclear weapons, is a significant contribution to the efforts to achieve a world free from nuclear weapons and a powerful example of non-proliferation cooperation.
in writing. - with the end of the cold war, central asia has gained increasing weight on the international chessboard: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the success of our strategy is therefore a key factor in maintaining stable and fruitful relations with the countries of the region. unfortunately, the conclusions of mrs kiil-nielsen's report seem to suggest that europe is not moving in the right direction. progress has been made, but it is still not enough for those who want to establish a lasting partnership: the economic support we provide to those countries is limited; the level of corruption in political regimes is high and widespread; inadequate respect for fundamental rights, with systematic cases of torture, repression of political opposition and child labour. finally, as the report points out, dangerous movements linked to islamic fundamentalism are spreading in the region, and for these reasons i am opposed to the report.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. the rapporteur recalls that since 2007 the eu has intensified its relations with the countries of central asia, which have a strategic role for europe, by establishing regular bilateral dialogues on human rights and national water policies. the eu is unable to reconcile its different objectives in effective programmes to be adapted to local realities and to the events, often tragic and potentially having repercussions in europe itself, experienced by central asia. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. in the new approach, the eu will have to play a mediating role in order to ensure respect for fundamental rights by asian governments and to achieve real regional cooperation between the countries of central asia. the establishment of an ad hoc eu-central asia parliamentary forum will also be important for monitoring these objectives.
in writing. the european union considers central asia to be strategically important from a political and economic point of view. since 2007, diplomatic relations have intensified, as evidenced by bilateral dialogues on human rights and national water policies. the central asian states, however, have serious shortcomings in democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. despite undeniable progress, the limits of the european strategy for central asia are now clear. the european union, moreover, is unable to reconcile its different objectives, values and interests in effective programmes adapted to local realities. the vote calls for a series of initiatives to step up european engagement, focusing on the objectives and actions most likely to help meet the most pressing challenges: human rights and the rule of law, water, energy and regional security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text presented by mr kiil-nielsen which examines the results (and future prospects for implementation) of the strategy pursued by the european union in central asia. the report, while highlighting increased multilateral cooperation and the positive improvements brought about by european aid, renews the call for greater commitment to promoting respect for human rights and economic development in the countries concerned, and calls for an enhanced eu presence in these areas.
in writing. − in the field of health and safety at work, there is a substantial body of legislation which allows the implementation of the european treaties and the charter of fundamental rights in the field of health at work and which guarantees respect for the fundamental right to health of citizens. however, the community strategy 2007-2012 stresses that this is not enough, but that legislation needs to be developed to adapt it to new risks such as psychosocial risks. in my view, the implementation of workplace health promotion policies and practices produces beneficial results in all areas, whether economic, social or personal. i believe that the verification of the correct implementation of legislation on health and safety at the workplace gives a crucial role to labour inspections for the prevention and control of risks. inspections, in my view, also play a positive role in improving information and experience within the company. member states should therefore strengthen the staff and resources of their labour inspection services. in this context, it is essential to identify the categories of workers at risk in order to provide appropriate responses so that they can effectively benefit from the respect of their fundamental right to health.
in writing. the report focuses its attention in some parts on the situation of ethnic minorities, immigrants as particularly vulnerable categories. the text proposes the introduction of targeted incentives that member states should put in place to improve the conditions of these categories of people in the labour market. in addition, the report repeatedly refers to the need to increase the employment of immigrants, recalling that this objective is also included in the eu 2020 strategy. i do not agree with these parts of the report, which focus on categories of people no more vulnerable than the millions of european citizens who, in the current crisis, are in great difficulty both from the employment and social and economic point of view. the member states should now concentrate all their efforts on these people more than ever before, before thinking of other vulnerable social groups. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. − i am in favour of the community strategy on health and safety at work. we believe that technological developments and changing socioeconomic conditions also change workplaces and work practices. rapid political, administrative and technical responses are therefore essential to ensure a high level of health and safety at work. the impact of the crisis on the economy and the severity of the recession in many member states should not be used as an excuse for a lack of scrupulous application of legislation on health and safety at work. it is therefore important that the european union and the member states develop a european occupational risk surveillance programme based on health indicators, definitions and epidemiological tools common to the 27 countries. i also stress the need for an integrated approach to surveillance which takes account both of the career path of active workers and of the health status of retired employees. it is important to support the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve an employment rate of 75% by 2020, by promoting the employment of women, young people, older workers, low-skilled workers and regular immigrants.
in writing. − the current community legislation on health and safety at work is based on the 1989 framework directive 391 and the directives on risks or specific sectors. however, the community strategy 2007-2012 notes that the regulatory framework is not sufficient. legislation needs to be updated to take account of new risks such as psychosocial risks. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the safety and health of workers is not compromised by the use of the workplace. member states are invited to strengthen the staff and resources of labour inspection services and to achieve the target of one inspector for every 10 000 workers, as recommended by the labour inspection organisation.
in writing. − implementing workplace health promotion policies and practices generates benefits in four areas: economic, social, personal and corporate image benefits. the verification of the correct implementation of legislation on health and safety at the workplace gives a crucial role to labour inspections for the prevention and control of risks. inspections also play a positive role in improving information and experience within the enterprise. member states should therefore strengthen the staff and resources of their services and achieve the target of one inspector per 10 000 workers, as recommended by the labour inspection organisation. the text of the report would be acceptable, but the clauses which identify migrants and ethnic minorities as vulnerable categories to be given targeted treatment are unacceptable.
in writing. − europe is facing a period of great change in the field of occupational health and safety. while strategies need to focus on three key areas - stress, burnout and musculoskeletal disorders - national strategies should also devote greater efforts and resources to prevention. one of the objectives of this vote is to provide specific statistical means for evaluating prevention, not only in terms of accidents but also in terms of diseases and the percentage of workers exposed to chemical, physical or biological agents and to dangerous situations from the point of view of work organization. it is also necessary to advance european harmonisation by including all workers in prevention policies.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the text presented by mr delli, considering the importance of protecting the safety and health of european citizens at work. investing in preventive policies would not only reduce social security expenditure but also improve the quality of work, while ensuring greater efficiency and competitiveness.
