on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as shadow rapporteur for the ppe group, i would like to start by saying that we welcome the increasing role of the eu as a trading power in every region of the world, including the pacific region. the agreement, as it is now, is not a perfect one, not least because it is not a comprehensive epa, but only an interim one. we hope that the commission will be in a position to negotiate, in due time, a comprehensive epa including a larger number of countries in the region. secondly, the current agreement concerns only a small part of eu trade, since the share of eu trade accounted for by the whole of the pacific region is just 0.06%, and yet some areas have caused us concern, most notably on the issue of the derogation from the rules of origin for fishery products. in our resolution we raise our concern that a number of countries, such as the philippines, thailand, china, the united states, australia and others, will be able to take advantage of this derogation and potentially export large quantities of processed fisheries products to the eu, potentially harming the interests of the eu fish processing and canning industry. we therefore encourage the commission to act on parliament’s request for it to conduct an impact assessment study and, in the event that the assessment demonstrates a destabilising effect on the eu’s fish processing and canning industry, for it to initiate the procedure leading to suspension of the exceptional arrangements in this agreement regarding rules of origin.
in view of the council conclusions on serbia's progress on reforms, serbia should be congratulated, but unfortunately there are some concerns. as serbia moves towards the european union, significant efforts must be made in certain areas, in particular the improvement of the business environment in serbia. the experience of lithuanian investors raises legitimate questions about the business environment and the protection of foreign investment in serbia. since the serbian government accused lithuanian companies, which had invested eur 34 million, of breach of their obligations and terminated the privatisation contract in violation of the agreement between serbia and lithuania providing for the promotion and mutual protection of investments. serbia needs to find ways to ensure a transparent and predictable business environment, to deal with bureaucratic constraints, legal uncertainty and the like. we support serbia's aspirations, of course, to join the european union and we are willing to deal with the problematic issues.
in writing. − i have supported this report and the european commission's proposal because i believe it is essential to make community law simpler and clearer, to make it more understandable and accessible to all citizens. this objective will not be achieved if many provisions, which have been amended in part and often substantially on several occasions, remain scattered among the various acts, and if the search for the rules in force at a given moment requires the work of comparing the various acts. the codification of legislation is of particular importance in the field of business, which is governed by a substantial body of community legislation in order to ensure the smooth and uninterrupted free movement of persons, goods and services. the consolidation of the legislation governing mergers of public limited companies is a welcome step towards improving community law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance and, therefore, in the interests of clarity and rationality, the existing texts should be codified.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the community has exclusive competence in respect of various aspects of external aviation which have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries, and as a result the community agreements need to replace certain provisions of the current bilateral agreements contained in the 47 existing bilateral air services agreements between the member states of the european union and the countries of the economic and monetary union of west africa. in order to avoid discrimination against eu air carriers, the traditional designation articles listing air carriers from member states that have signed a bilateral agreement are replaced by an eu designation article listing all eu air carriers. in addition, aviation fuel is generally exempt from taxation under traditional bilateral agreements, and such taxation is permitted under council directive 2003/96/ec amending the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity when activities are carried out within the territory of the european union. in addition, the clearly anti-competitive provisions of bilateral agreements (competitive commercial air carrier agreements) are compatible with eu competition law.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because of the size of the eu market for construction products and the need to act urgently in view of the persisting barriers to trade in the construction sector. given that the construction sector is one of europe's most important industries, generating 10% of gdp and employing 12 million eu citizens, proper regulation is essential. i believe that this proposal for a regulation on harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products will allow the construction products directive to be updated, simplified and amended in the light of the changed circumstances, for example in relation to market surveillance, including the new legal framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document. the construction sector is one of the most important industries in europe, accounting for 10% of gdp and 50.5% of total fixed capital. the sector directly employs 12 million eu citizens and creates an additional 26 million jobs in other sectors. the economic downturn has hit the eu construction industry hard, with many companies going bankrupt and workers losing their livelihoods across the eu. barriers to trade in the construction sector also persist in the union as member states still use national technical rules to prevent the free movement of goods and services in the construction sector in this context, the revision of the construction products directive is a much-needed boost that should help the sector to remove barriers to trade for manufacturers, thus helping businesses to stay in business and workers to keep their jobs. in order to remove administrative barriers, it is essential to ensure the independence and transparency of technical assessment bodies and i therefore support the proposal that transparency standards should be developed and that the participation of all stakeholders in the technical committees of the european standardisation bodies should be ensured in order to avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. - i supported this proposal because the construction sector is one of europe's most important industries, generating 10% of gdp, directly employing 12 million eu citizens and dependent on 26 million workers. furthermore, around 92% of the companies producing construction materials are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). as smes are the cornerstone of our economy, this proposal must recognise their role and needs. the revision of the construction products directive (89/106/eec) is a much-needed boost to the sector in removing barriers to trade for manufacturers, thus helping businesses to stay in business and workers to keep their jobs. the proposal for a regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products (com (2008) 311) aims to update, simplify and amend the construction products directive in the light of changed circumstances. it is good that there is a focus and a particular concern on harmful substances in these products, and the ability to detect dangerous substances in products is very important. if we knew where asbestos was in buildings, construction workers and building occupants would not suffer from diseases such as mesothelioma. for the sake of health and safety and transparency in the future, it is important to re-introduce the amendments on hazardous substances (amendments 7, 17 and 49).
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i think that the construction sector is a fairly broad reflection of the economic situation. in the second quarter of 2010, the lithuanian construction sector declined to 42,9% - among the highest declines in europe. since then, the situation has improved slightly, but let's not fool ourselves the lithuanian construction sector is recovering very slowly. so it's a little early to talk about a permanent recovery. there's still room for improvement. for example, my country's construction sector would recover faster if eu support was better absorbed. the construction sector is one of the largest industries in lithuania and europe. the sector employs 12 million eu citizens and is dependent on 26 million workers. the construction sector is very important for lithuania as it creates many jobs, increases domestic demand and brings money into the budget. the sector is also important for small and medium-sized enterprises, the cornerstone of our economy. approximately 92% of the companies producing construction materials are smes with less than 250 employees. i also support the rapporteur's proposal to use e-tools and it techniques to improve the common market for construction products. this is important for the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which is of great importance for the effective delivery of humanitarian aid. the european consensus on humanitarian aid implementation is the first joint document on humanitarian aid policy since the 1996 regulation in this field. consensus is a key tool, especially in the rapidly changing context of humanitarian aid, such as the frequency of natural disasters, military conflicts that cause mass displacement, etc. i believe that the european consensus on humanitarian aid will be an important step forward in making the eu's humanitarian action as effective as possible and will contribute to the dissemination of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law, to the coordination and coherence of eu humanitarian aid delivery, to a clearer use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities, to disaster risk reduction and to a stronger link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european union is the largest humanitarian aid donor, providing more than 40% of official international humanitarian aid. the number and intensity of natural disasters worldwide have increased sharply as a result of the effects of climate change. the humanitarian aid landscape has therefore changed significantly in recent years, and it is necessary to strengthen the eu's capacity to respond to disasters. i believe that the european union must step up its efforts to reduce disaster risk and provide not only for emergency aid but also for support to local communities to make them better prepared for disasters. the worrisome trend is the increase in violations of international humanitarian law and the deterioration of the situation in the areas where humanitarian aid is delivered. i agree that the european union must take action to ensure that humanitarian aid is coordinated in a good way and that it is not misused in any way.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by parliament on the implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid: mid-term review and future prospects of the action plan. the humanitarian aid agreement commits the european union to working closely together in this area to develop a common vision for humanitarian aid. the aim of this agreement is to enhance the effectiveness of the european union, to protect and promote the fundamental principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, and to promote respect for international humanitarian law. the mid-term review found that there was a lack of information on specific actions taken or to be taken and that the agreement was not yet known even to representatives of humanitarian organisations. a major effort is needed to improve the visibility of the consensus and to better inform member states, other institutions and military actors. the humanitarian aid environment has changed significantly in recent years and calls for an even stronger and more active application of the humanitarian aid agreement. i would like to emphasise the need to strengthen disaster risk reduction efforts and to provide not only for emergency relief but also for support for communities' own disaster preparedness capabilities. more efforts should also be made to integrate gender and to protect victims of sexual violence, which is increasingly being used as a weapon of war, through humanitarian assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is not just a formality, but helps us to return to the issues of humanitarian aid. the humanitarian situation has changed considerably in recent years. as regards the change in circumstances, it should be noted in particular that the impact of climate change has led to a sharp increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters. efforts to reduce disaster risk should therefore be strengthened, providing not only for emergency assistance but also for support for the capacity of communities to prepare themselves for disasters. in addition, complex crises, in particular internal conflicts, have increased and the nature of conflicts has changed, often involving mass population displacement (refugees, internally displaced persons) and increased violence against the population. there is a growing number of violations of international humanitarian law and a deterioration of the situation in the areas where humanitarian aid is delivered. the most shocking aspect of violations of international humanitarian law is the increasing use of sexual violence as a weapon of war. much should be done to protect humanitarian aid from sexual violence. therefore, more specific attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups, such as women, children and forcibly displaced persons (idps and refugees). the recent humanitarian disasters in haiti and pakistan have once again demonstrated the need to strengthen the eu's disaster response capacity in terms of effectiveness, coordination and visibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union, as the largest provider of humanitarian aid, needs to focus more on humanitarian aid in areas where it is urgently needed, given the sharp increase in the number of natural disasters and internal conflicts. member states should participate more effectively in the implementation of this consensus by integrating it into their national humanitarian strategies. in view of the need for humanitarian aid, it is necessary to increase its funding by ensuring the financing of operations in a timely and efficient manner. i agree with the proposal that there should be a clear separation of powers between military and humanitarian actors, so that military resources and capabilities, especially in regions where there is military conflict, are used only in strictly limited and extreme cases. in addition, a european civil protection and rapid response force should be established to ensure the proper and effective coordination and coherence of humanitarian aid.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which recognises that food security is a human right. this is achieved when all people have access at all times to sufficient safe and nutritious food to meet their daily nutritional needs for an active and healthy life. it is important to note that global stocks of staple foods are much smaller than in the past during the 2007 food crisis, they fell to a record low of 12 weeks of global food stocks. at the same time, global food production is becoming increasingly vulnerable to extreme weather events linked to climate change, which can lead to sudden, unpredictable food shortages. the eu should therefore provide for its contribution to the global food supply system. i think it is very important to promote both competitiveness in the agricultural sector and traditional farming, small farms, organic farming and local distribution. in addition, as rural communities age, i believe it is vital to ensure that young farmers have access to land and credit.
in writing. - i voted for this document. with the rapidly increasing number of people in the world, the agricultural sector must meet the growing demand for food despite the constraints of limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change. the food and agriculture organization (fao) estimates that at least 70 percent more food will have to be produced to meet the needs of a world population expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050. in addition, around 900 million people worldwide are chronically hungry due to extreme poverty, and 2 billion people are food insecure for longer periods of time due to greater or lesser poverty, making food availability one of the most important issues to be addressed. i agree that the new cap, which will be implemented after 2013, should promote not only competitiveness but also traditional agriculture, small farms, organic farming and local distribution of products to contribute to food security. in addition, as rural communities age, i believe it is vital to ensure that young farmers have access to land and credit, and that food prices are affordable and farmers have sufficient income.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because food security is a human right that ensures an active and healthy life. around the world, large numbers of people are constantly hungry or cannot reliably obtain food for long periods of time. despite the apparent sufficiency of supply, a large proportion of the world's population cannot afford to buy the most essential food items, and food availability remains one of the most pressing issues to be addressed. it is important to ensure that food is accessible to people from all social categories. the goal of food security cannot be achieved without addressing two of the most pressing issues of our time: the volatility of markets and prices, which is strongly influenced by speculation in commodity markets, and the dwindling food supply. speculation on food prices shall not be permitted in any way. we need to promote not only competitiveness but also traditional farming, small farms, organic farming and local distribution of products, ensuring agricultural diversity across europe. in addition, as rural communities age, i believe it is vital to ensure that young farmers have access to land and credit. our goal is to keep food prices affordable and farmers' incomes decent. however, i am in no way opposed to the use, consumption, import and other activities of genetically modified material and to the authorisation of production methods used in third countries, as there is no evidence to suggest that this does not pose a risk to human health or the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in relation to food supply, as the growing number of consumers, the high number of hungry people, the situation of farmers, the volatility of food prices and speculation in shares make it particularly important to regulate the agricultural sector by means of certain measures. in particular, every effort must be made, through financial incentives, to promote traditional, small-scale or organic farming in order to ensure a continuous food supply. in view of the public health risks of genetically modified substances, i am opposed to the proposal to allow the import of non-genetically modified products containing at least a minimum technical level of the genetically modified substance. we must take all measures to prevent the import of new types of genetically modified feed into the eu and the possibility of using production methods used in third countries. food accessibility problems cannot be solved by violating food safety requirements and putting human health at risk. in view of the increasingly ageing rural population and in order to attract and encourage young people to engage in agricultural activities, preferential access to loans for young farmers should be provided.
i congratulate all the rapporteurs on the creation of this important document. there is currently a lot of uncertainty about access to healthcare in other eu member states, compensation for services provided, responsibility for clinical care, after treatment. prescriptions for medicines issued in one member state are not always recognised in other countries. this directive is very necessary for our people because the current system is confusing and it is difficult to get the right information. moreover, scientific progress is highly uneven and this directive would allow patients to receive appropriate treatment in another member state if it is not provided to the patient. this would allow patients to benefit fully from the benefits of the single market and would have a positive impact on the future reform of the healthcare system in each member state.
congratulations to the rapporteur and to all those who contributed to this important document. it was a very long road to a final agreement. it would seem to be a document that everyone would accept, but there are some sceptics here who are concerned about the possible medical tourism, perhaps because of the uneven cost of services or the excessive bureaucratic requirements, but i think that the directive does contain balanced mechanisms to avoid the possible negative impact of this document. but the most important thing is to enable the mobility of patients, to enable them to be citizens of the european union, that is to say, to move freely within the european union and also to have easy access to services, that is the most important thing. the language barrier and lack of information discourage people from using this option, so the contact centres planned will provide patients with all the information they need, more clarity, confidence and self-care. health is important to each of us and only by working together can we move forward in this direction.
i congratulate the speakers who have done a good job. it must be recognised that, as the european union ages, alzheimer's and other forms of dementia are spreading at a dangerous rate. often, the symptoms of these diseases are not correctly identified or develop too late and patients do not receive adequate treatment. it is right that dementia should be a priority health issue. only by spreading the word, by increasing public awareness of the disease, its symptoms, early detection, can we tackle the emerging dementia wave. unfortunately, in most of the new countries of the european union, including lithuania, the care of patients with dementia is generally very poor. the greatest burden is often placed on the close relatives of the sick. the state should evaluate their work: provide social guarantees to relatives who care for a sick person, in terms of the possibility of a fixed work experience.
i agree with the specific actions proposed in the alzheimer's disease initiative that it is necessary to ensure early diagnosis and quality of life, to promote cooperation between member states through the exchange of best practice and clinical research, and to respect the rights of people with this serious disease. as the european union currently does not have sufficiently precise statistical data on the prevalence of alzheimer's disease, studies based on rigorous overall indicators are necessary. in addition, investment is needed in research and in effective programmes for surveillance systems. particular attention needs to be paid to healthcare professionals, service providers and to training and support for families who are faced with alzheimer's cases on a daily basis. i would like to stress that in the fight against this serious disease, it is very important to focus on prevention and to try to diagnose it as early as possible. a prevention strategy for alzheimer's disease is therefore needed, involving the promotion of healthier lifestyles, the provision of information about the disease and the change of medical practices.
so here's my question. the structural funds, and in particular the social fund, which is devoted to improving the skills of workers, are essential to safeguarding jobs by employing qualified people. but do you think that there is a level playing field between the wealthy multinational corporations, which have to contribute to get funding from the structural funds or the social fund, and the medium and small businesses, which equally want to train their people, want to have skilled workers? do you see any suggestions here that large corporations and small and medium-sized enterprises have a level playing field?
member of the commission. - thank you for your interest and comments. the subject of microfinance is indeed one which is dealt with by several directorates-general, with a certain lead in terms of content being given by mr andor. but we are also dealing with the question in the field of regional policy. as regards the question of interest rates, for example, there are some member states which have, so to speak, set a ceiling of between 8% and 9.5% as a condition. however, it must also be borne in mind that, of course - and this has always been an issue, also in the preparation of this whole subject - the overheads are relatively high compared to the actual loans and therefore corresponding costs have to be covered. we must find a reasonable middle ground here. i think we got it. the second question: i can report that the jasmine instrument, which is intended to prepare microfinance accordingly and to prepare and train for the employment of intermediates, is currently preparing 15 institutions in 15 different countries, 11 in central and eastern europe and 4 in western europe. i do not have all the countries in mind, but essentially most of the new applicant countries have been covered, and we expect that in the coming years 20 more intermediates will be prepared accordingly by the jasmine programme. as for the last question, i ask for your understanding that i cannot give answers from my head. we will provide written explanations detailing the reasons for restrictions on access. but i would strongly suggest that there are often communication problems here, that there are often obstacles because many of the potential borrowers are people who can no longer get a loan from a 'normal bank' and therefore there is often a certain threshold anxiety or reluctance to go to such institutions. if this is the case and if it is becoming more and more evident, then it is also necessary to take the necessary steps to provide information in this area.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european tourism industry, like many other economic sectors, is facing the increasing challenge of globalisation. this is a challenge that the commission has already highlighted and addressed on several occasions, in particular with the communication 'an industrial policy in the era of globalisation'. on 30 june last year, the commission also adopted a specific communication on tourism, which proposes, in line with the lisbon treaty and the new europe 2020 strategy, a consolidated policy framework to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector, with the aim of making european tourism a truly competitive, modern, stable and responsible industry. the creation of a favourable environment for the development of medium-sized, small and very small enterprises in the tourism sector is the fundamental principle of this consolidated framework. to achieve this we have proposed three concrete actions aimed firstly at boosting the competitiveness of the tourism sector within our union, secondly at promoting the development of sustainable, responsible and quality tourism, and thirdly at consolidating the image and visibility of europe as a set of sustainable and quality tourist destinations and, of course, maximising the potential of the union's policies and financial instruments to develop tourism. the initiatives promoted should provide the sector with the tools to adapt to the challenges faced by its players and to undertake sustainable development in terms of competitiveness. concrete measures will certainly be taken to promote innovation in tourism, to improve the quality of tourist services and to improve the professional skills of staff, because we can no longer think of tourism as a purely family-run sector, but we must also think of a more modern and more competitive tourist organization. i will give a few examples of vocational training: a 'ict & tourism platform' to facilitate the adaptation of the tourism sector and businesses to the evolution of the new information technology market and to increase their competitiveness. these are all proposals, ideas, which are included in the text of the commission's communication, which was approved by the council and which we are debating in parliament, the rapporteur is present in the chamber. the mobilisation of industry actors to make better use of the various union programmes, such as leonardo, the framework programme for innovation and competitiveness, erasmus for young entrepreneurs, the european social fund and other programmes. in addition, a strategy for the promotion of a diversified tourist offer and the creation of a virtual observatory with electronic support for european tourism will make it possible to contribute equally to the creation of a favourable environment for the players in the sector. it should also be borne in mind that smes can benefit from other cross-cutting initiatives to access finance. i would mention the jeremie project, a joint initiative of the commission, the european investment fund and the european investment bank, which aims to improve access to finance for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular through the channels of venture capital, loans, guarantees, microcredit and other forms of repayable aid. finally, i would like to point out that small and mediumsized enterprises in the tourism sector are fully benefiting from the measures proposed under the small business act which aims to facilitate the operational environment specific to small and mediumsized enterprises and that parliament will receive the updated text within a few weeks. the small business act is therefore also a tool for protecting small and mediumsized enterprises in the tourism sector, which represent an extraordinary potential for developing a sector which i hope to be able to strengthen in the coming year, because i am absolutely convinced that a european policy, as provided for in the treaty, can add value to the work already being done very well by the regions of the european union and the member states. i therefore believe i can reassure the honourable member who put the question that the commission and my staff are committed to ensuring that all small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector are supported and have easier access to community economic instruments, in the context of a political strategy which aims to make tourism one of the key sectors of economic and industrial policy.
i think that all of us here today hope that the forecasts you have made for the future development of tourism will be realised and that this sector will not only be developed but also attractive for investment. as you know, however, tourism has developed unevenly in the european union so far, for reasons both objective and subjective. i'd like to ask. the baltic sea strategy identifies the attractiveness and accessibility of the baltic region as one of its key objectives. what has been achieved in this area in the past year ?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr balčytis for giving me the opportunity to speak on a subject which is particularly close to my heart as a european commissioner and as the first european commissioner responsible for tourism, which i consider a priority, together with industrial policy and space policy. the key issue, however, in order to give a concrete answer, beyond the political initiatives which i have tried to implement since i became commissioner, is what mr fidanza said in his speech, because there was no community competence for tourism policy before the lisbon treaty, and in the current financial perspective there are no funds to contribute with community aid to a strong tourism action. we have interesting programmes such as calypso, which in spain have been enhanced by regional initiatives which i think are very positive, but if i have understood the message that mr fidanza has sent, in the report that will be presented by parliament there will be support for an increase in the funds allocated to tourism policy in the next financial perspective. this can be included in the eighth framework programme or in ad hoc budget lines. it is important, however, that parliament should raise the issue, because it is difficult to give concrete answers if the economic instruments are not available. that said, it does not mean that we will not act in a very determined way. as you know, there have been many initiatives, the belgian presidency has organised a major event in malta, the hungarian presidency has already announced that it will be organising a major event - that was the subject of discussion at the first meeting we had in budapest a few days ago - a major event devoted to tourism. i am also glad that mr balčytis has raised the problem of tourism in the baltic: tourism is not a problem which concerns only the economies of the mediterranean countries - spain, france, italy, greece and malta - it is a very important resource for the whole of the european union, including the countries of central and eastern europe, which have beauty and potential to develop. i think that one of the issues that is dealt with in the text adopted on 30 june last year is the relationship with the new emerging classes, with the new bourgeoisie of the russian federation, where there are millions and millions of citizens who want to do tourist work and therefore want to go outside the borders of their country. we have a problem with the visas. the same problem exists with china, i believe, and it is the will of the european commission and the ministers of tourism to try to solve this problem, both with regard to this potential of russian tourism and this potential of chinese tourism, to speed up and make it easier to receive in our countries, and the baltic countries, being closer to the russian federation, can benefit from a tourist presence also of the emerging middle class which can bring benefits to their economy. this is at the very heart of our work on tourism policy and i am also pleased that many ministers from different countries - i met the new british minister for tourism in london a few weeks ago - including britain, are strongly committed to supporting the european union's tourism policy, as is france. it would be important to identify some entry points, because europe must be an added value. i am pleased that commissioner vassiliou has wanted to include major sporting events in the text on sport adopted today. i think the london olympics are a great opportunity for the whole of the european union. we must ensure that each country in the union is a gateway for tourists who do not stop in that country but, after visiting that country, can go to visit other european countries. this is the additional action that the european commission can take and the support of parliament is crucial for me. i thank you for what you can do, not only in the debate on tourism policy but also in any debate on the next budgetary activities.
member of the commission. − mr president, education is one of the major factors that determines employability. the risk of being unemployed is 40% lower for higher education graduates than for people with only secondary education. however, youth unemployment and under-employment are unacceptably high today. too many graduates struggle to make the transition to the labour market and secure quality employment that corresponds to their educational background. of course, the efforts to improve employability begin well before higher education. the commission works with member states to identify the skills or key competences that young people need to learn at school. today, young people need a wider range of skills than ever before in order to flourish in a globalised economy. many will work in jobs that do not yet exist. many will need advanced linguistic, intercultural and entrepreneurial skills. technology will continue to change the world in ways we cannot imagine, so the ability to continue to learn and to innovate will become crucial factors for employability. guidance is also critical. young people are confronted with an increased number of educational choices. they need to be able to take informed decisions. this requires better information about education and training paths, including a clear picture of job opportunities. we need to develop quality career guidance services and vocational orientation with the strong involvement of labour market institutions. turning to higher education, the commission recently launched, as you know, youth on the move – a europe 2020 flagship initiative which sets out to make education and training more relevant to young people’s needs. we are now starting to implement the various parts of this strategy. later this year, the commission plans to present a new communication on the modernisation of higher education. we will take stock of progress in making higher education more relevant to the needs of the knowledge-based society, including the question of employability. we will identify the key challenges for the future and set out our response. as part of these efforts, the commission will reinforce the european platform for dialogue between universities and business, with a view to increasing the employability of students and to developing the role of education in the knowledge triangle. in a more global and mobile world, transparency regarding the performance of higher education institutions can stimulate both competition and cooperation, and be an incentive for further improvements and modernisation. however, existing international rankings can give an incomplete picture of the performance of universities. this year, the commission will present the results of a feasibility study to develop an alternative multi-dimensional ranking system which reflects the diversity of higher education institutions. europe needs to be better at anticipating the skill needs of tomorrow. this is why the commission has launched the agenda for new skills and jobs, which goes hand in hand with our youth on the move initiative. the agenda for new skills and jobs looks at how to help our young people to become more employable. above all, we need to give people the right mix of skills so that they can adapt to our fast-changing society. our new eu skills panorama, which will be operational in 2012, will help to forecast not only the skills that employers need today, but also those required in the future. in the spring of this year, the commission intends to propose new european benchmarks on learning mobility and on the role of education in preparing people to be employable in the knowledge-based labour market. finally, eu programmes to support education, training and youth, including mobility programmes such as erasmus, can help young people to improve their chances in the labour market by gaining valuable international experience and by developing their intellectual understanding.
i thank you for your very detailed answer, commissioner, but i have one more question. the european union must guarantee the right to quality higher education for all citizens. however, there are considerable differences between member states in terms of higher education systems, prices and the availability of loans to finance studies. high interest rates on loans to pay for studies and unfavourable repayment terms often prevent young people from pursuing higher education in their own country and encourage intellectual outflow to other countries. does the european commission intend to issue guidelines on the most favourable conditions for granting student loans?
member of the commission. − first of all, on the question of the disparities between higher education institutes: exactly! that is why we want to have transparency in the records of universities. that is why we are now completing the feasibility study on the basis of which we shall dare to look into the ranking of universities, the mapping of universities and the standards of universities in order to give students more informed choices. the aim is for them to know exactly where to study, what to study and what is the standard of the university that they want to enter. regarding fees, i think i agree with you that high fees need fair loans, but as i am sure you know this is the responsibility of the member states. we know that one thing that economists agree on is that investment in education is something which will produce long-term results, growth and jobs, so i always urge governments not to cut university investment or education investment in general. moreover, i agree with the honourable member who raised the question of the insufficiency of mobility grants like erasmus. that is why we are again completing a feasibility study – a study by the london school of economics, which i hope will be ready in a couple of months – on the basis of which we shall explore, with the european investment bank, the possibility of creating a european student loan for mobility. this, i am sure, will give all students, whether they are poor or rich, the possibility of taking advantage of these excellent mobility grants. with regard to mr papanikolaou’s question, he is talking about the structural development funds on the basis of which governments can build their education infrastructure. unfortunately the structural funds are not my responsibility, but i will find out from commissioner hahn whether there are any reports by member states as to the outcome of these grants and if so, i will certainly let you know.
member of the commission. − as you are aware, it is for each member state to decide how to organise its educational system. this is in accordance with article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. nevertheless, the commission works with member states to foster mutual learning and exchanges of good practice. as we stated in the europe 2020 strategy, it is vital for europe’s future as a knowledge-based and inclusive society that education systems are reformed and modernised to match the best in the world. the oecd’s pisa survey is an important resource for these exchanges. the latest pisa survey, published in december 2010, shows a mixed picture for eu member states. there are signs of considerable improvement in some systems but, overall, there is much progress still to be made. these results will provide an important input to future exchanges between the commission and the member states. the european benchmark, adopted by the council in may 2009, aims at an adequate level of basic skills in reading, mathematics and science by calling for the share of low-achievers aged 15 to be reduced to below 15% by the year 2020. now i would like to read something from the pisa report, which is very relevant. the share of low-achieving pupils in reading, which had increased from 21% in 2000 to 24% in 2006, improved to 20% in 2009. nevertheless, the oecd 2010 benchmark of reducing the 2000 share by 20% to reach 17% was not reached. the share of low-achieving pupils in maths and science has been declining since 2006. there was more progress in science than in maths and the share of low-achievers is today lower in science than in maths. if 2006 is used as a strong starting point, the eu is well on track as regards progress towards the 2020 low-achiever benchmark. on average, over the three disciplines in the 25 eu countries for which data is available, 22.5% were low-achievers in 2006 and by 2009 their share had declined to 19.6%. so we see that, on average, in the european union we have made progress. the commission will, of course, analyse the pisa results and publish its conclusions in its next annual progress report on benchmarks in 2011. in november 2010 the council invited the commission and member states to focus their joint work on the following areas: curriculum design, motivation for reading, literacy, maths, science and technology, the impact of new technologies on basic skills and their use in helping learners to acquire autonomy and maintain motivation, gender differences in performance and attitudes, the link between pupils’ background and their mastery of basic skills and, finally, issues around teachers and teacher trainers as well as around schools’ ethos and characteristics. in its conclusion the council also invited the commission to establish a high-level group on literacy and a thematic working group on maths, science and technology. i intend to launch the high-level group on literacy on 1 february. it will suggest policy measures based on best practices and research, which will help member states to improve the consistency and effectiveness of the provision of basic skills within their lifelong learning strategies and the group will conclude its work and publish its report in mid-2012. moreover, the thematic working group on maths, science and technology has already been established. it comprises national policymakers and experts on the basis of mutual learning and the exchange of good practices. the thematic working group will identify and disseminate policy measures to improve the situation of low-achievers in basic skills at national level. i should also underline that the comenius actions of the lifelong learning programme focuses among other priorities on increasing motivation in science and mathematics and on improving literacy skills.
i would like to ask, maybe there's a study done in some countries that may not be showing good results in terms of students, in terms of their achievement, what does that depend on? are these financial things, or are these structural things? what do you think of basic training? the study was done with older students, but what about younger people who are going to continue their education?
i just want to take this opportunity to highlight other waste management problems in the european union. these problems are reflected in particular in the neglect of waste management priorities by national and local authorities. for example, in one lithuanian city, entrepreneurs who want to build a waste incineration plant mislead the public by lining up waste incineration or even by putting it in front of other waste management methods - avoidance, sorting. unfortunately, the local authorities and the authorities responsible for waste management do not pay much attention to this deception. i therefore urge the commission to address the problem of waste management in the european union by drawing attention to the cases of non-compliance with the waste management priorities laid down in the european union's waste directive.
today, as i consider this sensitive issue for my country, lithuania, i would like to stress first of all that lithuania, as a member of the european union, respects human rights and freedoms and the values of the european union. it is regrettable that there are cases where individual members of the lithuanian parliament initiate laws that violate human rights and discriminate against citizens. however, i would like to inform you that the lithuanian government last wednesday rejected the proposal to impose penalties for the promotion of homosexual relations, which is under consideration in parliament, as it is contrary to both international and european union law and the constitutional provisions of the republic of lithuania and can be considered a discriminatory ground for the sexual orientation of persons. in addition, ratification of the lisbon treaty obliges lithuania to comply with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which prohibits any discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation. the draft law was condemned by the president of the republic of lithuania dalia grybauskaitė. i would like to point out that the amendments proposed in the draft law have not yet been adopted by the parliament of the republic of lithuania. furthermore, the opinion of the lithuanian parliament's human rights committee on these proposed amendments has not yet been submitted. i hope that lithuania will take into account the criticism of the european union and the international community, the negative conclusion of the government of the republic of lithuania, the resolution of the european parliament and that the lithuanian parliament will have the political will to reject the proposed law, which would violate human rights and freedoms, and that any discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation, will be prevented.
i am from lithuania and the resolution under discussion today is based on an amendment to the code of administrative offences. this is, i stress, an unfinished legislative process in the national parliament, in which the european parliament is trying to intervene. this is a deliberative stage, not a final decision, not even considered in committee and not discussed. in fairness, i should say that the institutions which were asked to evaluate the amendment which our group of parliamentarians is discussing have reached conclusions which are not favourable to the project, so the projected result under discussion today is unlikely to be what we are talking about here. that's why i can't support the resolution, because it's an overreaction. and i would also like to ask my friend higgins: do not refer to what you have not experienced. comparing the soviet union with present-day lithuania is simply inconceivable.
in writing. i congratulate hungary on the start of its first presidency of the european union. hungary, which took over the presidency from the old member belgium, is taking up the presidency at a rather difficult time, as not all eu member states are recovering equally well from the economic and financial crisis. moreover, it will require further efforts to overcome it fully, and i therefore support the priorities identified by hungary on the issues of european economic stabilisation, enlargement of the european union, energy and roma integration. i would like to draw attention to the urgent need to revise the maternity leave directive, which was not supported by the member states. the prospects for the anti-discrimination directive, which is still blocked in the council, are also unclear. these acts are of great relevance to european citizens and their future must be decided as soon as possible. i would also urge the presidency to pay more attention to the modernisation of higher education, which has an impact on youth employment. i welcome the fact that hungary has included the fight against child poverty as one of its priorities in its programme, but i would urge the presidency to take concrete action in this area and to cooperate with the european commission in initiating a strategy or legislation on child poverty. i therefore wish hungary a successful presidency over the next six months in improving the situation of the people of europe and ensuring their rights and freedoms.
madam president, here are my remarks on the resolution condemning lithuania, because nothing happened. the text adopted lacks the most important point of view. what i wished to propose, unsuccessfully, as an oral amendment to the recital part, would be: ‘whereas the intervention of the european parliament in the proceedings of national parliaments at the earliest stage of work on any proposed legislation is contrary to the fundamental principle of sovereignty and subsidiarity of member states and therefore compromises the european parliament as ever more linked to former soviet practices’, etc. as adopted. the pretext for such a resolution was just one draft amendment introduced by one member of the national parliament. i stress one amendment. nevertheless in the parliament text just adopted, this fact was stubbornly and unreasonably presented in the plural, and it was even mentioned six times that allegedly there were many bad amendments. the title of the resolution includes an absurdity as well. it states ‘on violation’. there was no violation, only a proposal by one parliamentarian; there was no decision by parliament which could be blamed as a violation that happened. statements such as these reflect an extremely low quality of drafting work, not to say a lack of responsibility by those who drafted and presented for a vote this text, which required far more intelligent elaboration at least, if it was not simply discarded for trash. therefore i voted against the whole thing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to establish patients' rights to crossborder healthcare. it should be noted that there is currently too much uncertainty on access to healthcare, compensation or responsibility for clinical care after treatment in other member states. this directive should enable all patients, not just the best informed or the most affluent, to benefit from many of the rights already recognised in this area by the court of justice of the european union. it should be stressed that this document does not in any way address the promotion of health services in other member states, but aims to make them feasible, safe and of high quality when they are judged to be useful or necessary. citizens of the european union must be given better and clearer information on the rules for travelling to receive healthcare in a member state other than the member state of the insured person. i agree that 'health tourism' must be tackled, but in order to protect patients' rights, a system of advance authorisation must be developed that is patient-friendly and that provides a reasonable advance warning to healthcare managers of the exceptional costs associated with travelling to healthcare facilities in other eu countries.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. citizens of the european union expect safe, high-quality and effective healthcare from their member states. member states are responsible for their own healthcare systems, and the availability and quality of services vary considerably. patients do not always have access to appropriate treatment in their own member state , which is fundamentally contrary to the freedoms enshrined in the eu treaty . the recognition of prescriptions in the union is also not resolved, which poses major problems for travellers. i do not think that the free movement of patients and the right to choose treatment in another member state will encourage medical tourism. i believe that this can be a positive sign for member states to undertake appropriate healthcare reforms and ensure that the highest quality and the widest range of healthcare services are provided so that patients can receive treatment in another member state if needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the proposal for this directive aims to give all patients the right and the opportunity to receive essential healthcare services in other member states of the european union as soon as possible. it also clarifies the cases in which these services can be accessed in other eu countries, as the rules for access to these services and the reimbursement of their costs are not always clear and understandable at present. i would like to emphasise that this directive must be addressed to all patients, not just the wealthiest or best informed, and should ensure the safety of all patients. the european parliament already voted in favour of this directive at first reading, but unfortunately the council did not take account of all the amendments of the parliament. for example, the council has ignored the very important issue of the treatment of rare diseases, and even about 25 million europeans suffer from rare diseases and must therefore be given the opportunity to seek treatment in other member states. i also agree with the parliament's position that, in order to avoid discrimination against people with lower incomes, the home country should pay directly to the hospital providing treatment in another member state, without requiring the citizen to pay the bill in advance, or at least the costs incurred by the patient should be reimbursed immediately. it is also essential that each member state establishes national contact centres where patients can obtain all the necessary information, i.e. about available healthcare services, procedures and necessary documentation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it seeks to establish the rights of patients to cross-border healthcare. it is regrettable that there is currently too much uncertainty about access to healthcare, compensation or responsibility for clinical care after treatment in other member states. this directive should enable all patients, not just the best informed or the most affluent, to benefit from many of the rights already recognised in this area by the court of justice of the european union. it is not about promoting the provision of health services in other member states, but about making them available, safe and of high quality, when they are deemed useful or necessary. this directive should provide patients with an option that is linked to their needs rather than to their means, and that this option is optional and related to informed choice. i also agree with the parliament's position that, in order to avoid discrimination against people with lower incomes, the home country should pay directly to the hospital providing treatment in another member state, without requiring the citizen to pay the bill in advance, or at least the costs incurred by the patient should be reimbursed immediately. it is also essential that each member state establishes national contact centres where patients can obtain all the necessary information, i.e. about available healthcare services, procedures and necessary documentation.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, it is vital that our citizens have access to essential and quality healthcare services, both at home and abroad. i am pleased that this report also addresses the issue of patient mobility in the eu. lithuanians living and working abroad must be guaranteed access to treatment, if necessary, without paying absurd sums or waiting for months in the dark. the output is information. i support the rapporteur's proposal that each member state should set up national contact points where patients can find out about available healthcare services and administrative procedures. however, sometimes not all diseases can be treated in your own country and in such cases treatment should be provided in another country. we must do our utmost to ensure that crossborder healthcare services or 'health tourism' (as the rapporteur notes in this case) do not weaken our national healthcare systems. a well-balanced balance is needed. low prices and easy access make lithuania particularly attractive to other eu residents seeking cheaper treatment and operations abroad. unless carefully controlled, 'health tourism' could lead to surplus services and unnecessary logistical costs, especially for new eu members such as lithuania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the flegt voluntary partnership agreements with the republic of cameroon and the republic of congo. it should be stressed that these voluntary agreements on timber trade cannot undermine the eu's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee the sustainable use of forests. i believe that these voluntary agreements will contribute more than hinder the common goal of stopping the trade in illegally harvested timber and the goal of helping to stop deforestation and destruction and the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss on a global scale. i therefore support the call on the commission to ensure eu policy coherence and to focus its efforts on ensuring that voluntary partnership agreements do not encourage the extension of industrial logging activities to intact forests and to cooperate in the future with all governments that sign voluntary partnership agreements in monitoring and addressing the direct and indirect negative impacts of commercial logging on wildlife and flora.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. forests cover 40% of cameroon's territory and it is the main exporter of african timber to europe. 80% of the logs harvested are sold to the eu . however, the sector faces many serious management problems that lead to environmental degradation, increased inequality, poverty and corruption. according to ngo studies, 20% of all congolese timber currently imported into the european market is of illegal origin - it is either illegally produced, sold, processed or exported. this voluntary partnership agreement between cameroon and the eu is a good example of how responsible purchasing can have a positive impact on the quality of the environment in third countries or the global environment in general, reduce pollution, combat climate change, poverty and corruption. i believe that responsible sourcing can make a significant contribution to reducing unfair and illegal trade and to the conservation of forests and biodiversity.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the objective of the cameroon-eu voluntary partnership agreement is to provide a legal framework for the identification and traceability of timber, to establish governmental and independent verification procedures to confirm that all timber exported from cameroon to european markets is legally procured, harvested, transported and exported in order to ensure that cameroon's forests are exploited legally, and to strengthen the enforcement and management of forestry legislation. in my view, the illegal trade in timber and corruption must be prevented and an effective and transparent system for checking the legality of timber and timber products must be established. the eu-cameroon voluntary partnership agreement, concluded in accordance with wto rules, provides for policy and legislative reforms that will enable good governance and greater transparency in the cameroonian forest sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's forestry legislation and its implementation in the member states. it should be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber cannot undermine the eu's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee the sustainable use of forests, halt deforestation and forest degradation and the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the purpose of the congo-eu voluntary partnership agreement is to provide a legal framework for the identification and traceability of timber, to establish governmental and independent verification procedures to confirm that all timber exported from the congo to european markets is legally sourced, harvested, transported and exported. in my view, the illegal trade in timber and corruption must be prevented and an effective and transparent system for checking the legality of timber and timber products must be established. the congo exports more than eur 250 million worth of timber and timber products each year, half of which goes to the eu. currently, 20% of all congolese timber imported into the european market is of illegal origin it is either illegally produced, sold, processed or exported. the successive wars of 1993 and 1999 did not improve the situation they only helped to spread corruption. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy and to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy. it should be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber cannot undermine the eu's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee the sustainable use of forests, halt deforestation and forest degradation and the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on intercountry adoption in the european union, which seeks the well-being of every child and recognises the right of orphaned or abandoned children to a family and to safety. i support the call to explore the possibility of harmonising the strategy of measures relating to intercountry adoption at european level, taking into account international conventions, but it should be stressed that, where possible and in the best interests of the child, preference should be given to adoption in the child's country of origin. it is essential to establish a system to ensure transparency and to help coordinate action to prevent trafficking in children for the purpose of adoption. at the same time, the procedures for intercountry adoption must be improved, simplified and facilitated, and red tape eliminated, while committing to the protection of the rights of children from third countries.
in writing. − the protection of the rights of the child, enshrined in the lisbon treaty, is one of the objectives of the european union, which will need to be given even greater attention following the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights. the european union's policy must therefore guarantee and implement the right of children to the protection and care necessary for their well-being. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we need to strengthen the policy of protecting children's rights. the number of children abandoned by their parents and placed in state care, which is very high in some member states, has led to concern. in addition, violations of children's rights, violence against them, trafficking in children, involvement in prostitution, illegal work and other illegal activities remain a major problem in the european union. i agree that it is necessary to assess the functioning of national systems at european level in order to identify the problems that exist in the member states in the area of child rights protection and, if necessary, to take measures to ensure the most effective protection of vulnerable children and to enable them to have a family and be safe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on intercountry adoption in the european union. the protection of children's rights is one of the european union's key objectives. we must protect the welfare and interests of every child. many conventions are now in force to protect children and to establish parental responsibilities. the european convention on the adoption of minors of 1967 aims to harmonise the laws of the member states relating to adoption. the 1993 convention on protection and cooperation in respect of intercountry adoption of children (hague convention) has been signed by all member states. although the area of adoption falls within the competence of the member states, i believe that the possibility of harmonising the strategy of measures relating to intercountry adoption at european level should be explored. it is necessary to ensure that international conventions are taken into account in the preparation of such a strategy. we must strive to improve the quality of information services, preparation for intercountry adoption, processing of applications for intercountry adoption and post-adoption services, taking into account that all international conventions on the protection of the rights of the child recognise the right of orphaned or abandoned children to a family and to safety. the european union institutions and the member states must also actively combat trafficking in children for adoption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on intercountry adoption in the european union, as the protection of children's rights is one of the european union's most important objectives. many conventions are now in force to protect children and to establish parental responsibilities. i believe that the possibility of harmonising issues relating to intercountry adoption at european level should be explored, with a view to improving the quality of information services, preparation for intercountry adoption, processing of applications for intercountry adoption and post-adoption services. it is essential to establish a system to ensure transparency and prevent trafficking of children for the purpose of adoption. i would also like to emphasise that, where possible and in the best interests of the child, adoption in the child's country of origin should be given priority.
in writing. − i have endorsed this resolution on serbia's european integration process, which reaffirms that serbia's future is linked to the european union and calls on the country to continue its efforts towards this goal. serbia has made progress in reforms, but further progress is needed to meet the copenhagen criteria. the kosovo issue is of great importance and i therefore support the call in the resolution for the serbian government to abolish the serbian-like structures in kosovo that are holding back the process of decentralisation and preventing the full integration of the serbian community into the kosovo institutions. the eu must send a clear signal to the serbian government in view of the upcoming general elections in kosovo that serbia is expected to take a constructive approach to these elections. i agree with the view expressed in the resolution that the participation of kosovo serbs in the electoral process is a necessary condition for preventing the social exclusion of the kosovo serb community.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the enlargement process in the european union is based on strict compliance with eu political, legal and technical requirements and standards. the western balkan countries were promised accession to the european union back in 2003 if they met the criteria. the european union is committed to ensuring long-term stability and sustainable development in the western balkans. as the pace of integration of the countries of the region is individual, each country must make the greatest possible effort to implement the necessary reforms and take the necessary measures to ensure the security and stability of each country and, at the same time, of the region as a whole. serbia is making considerable progress in many areas and is cooperating with the european union in a fairly successful and constructive manner. the abolition of visas for serbian citizens to enter the eu since 2009 shows that the eu is supportive of the reforms being undertaken in the country. i agree with the observations made in the resolution that reforms must be continued in the areas of protection of citizens' and minority rights, media pluralism, judicial independence, prison reform and many others. the efforts to uphold the rule of law, which ensures the democratic functioning of public authorities and the effective protection of human rights and freedoms, must remain one of the highest priorities of the serbian authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in serbia, as the development of regional cooperation is a key priority for the european union and an essential element in the balkans in the process of reconciliation and the implementation of the good neighbour policy. the future of serbia as a key guarantor of security and stability in the region is closely linked to the european union and it must therefore make every effort to become a full member of the european union. in order to obtain candidate status and to enter into negotiations with the eu, serbia must engage in dialogue with kosovo as soon as possible, adopt a constructive approach to the forthcoming general elections and make every effort to ensure that the kosovo serb community is not socially excluded. i support the proposal that a country be granted candidate status only after it has begun to cooperate fully with the opcw. in addition, serbia must continue the reforms it has initiated and implement new ones. the serbian authorities must make every effort to ensure the proper implementation of the principles of the rule of law and democracy in the country and must do everything possible to ensure that the level of corruption in the country is continuously reduced and that officials who abuse their position are severely sanctioned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i welcome the progress made by serbia in reforming the public administration, the legal system, the fight against corruption and organised crime. i support the rapporteur's call for all eu member states to start the process of ratifying the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia as soon as possible. the main requirement of this report is that serbia fully cooperate with the hague tribunal in order to progress towards eu membership. at the same time, i would like to call on serbia to make stronger commitments in the areas of employment policy and social cohesion. i would also urge the country to continue to create an environment conducive to the development of democracy, the rule of law, a free market economy and respect for human rights. serbia has made progress in environmental protection. however, the country should make more efforts in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency. the main elements of eu renewable energy legislation still need to be transposed into national legislation. the parties shall adopt legislation on energy efficiency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias, which focuses on better cooperation between member states and more effective and solidarity-based action to improve prevention and treatment for people with dementia, in particular alzheimer's disease, as well as for people around them, whether healthcare professionals, service providers or relatives. the commission communication to the european parliament and the council on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias is a crucial step towards concrete proposals that will help to bring together the different existing policies and approaches to tackle these types of diseases. the fragmented and uneven measures we see in europe, as well as the widespread disparities in diagnosis and treatment, justify this initiative to a large extent. it is therefore essential to focus on early diagnosis and prevention, to take action to improve public awareness of what it means to live with dementia, and a european strategy should aim to ensure services that guarantee the maximum possible coverage and a level playing field for diagnosis and treatment of patients, regardless of their age, gender, financial resources or place of residence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. every 24 hours, a new case of a neurodegenerative disease (a disorder of the nervous system) is diagnosed in the european union. this disease is one of the main causes of disability in the elderly, and more than half of cases are alzheimer's disease. the number of people who are infected is expected to increase dramatically. this is worrying, since life expectancy is increasing and the ratio of people in work to those in retirement is decreasing. i support the european commission's proposal for a european strategy based on solidarity action by member states to improve the prevention and treatment of people with dementia (gradual decline in mental abilities) and those around them. the european strategy should also aim to ensure services that guarantee the highest possible coverage and equal conditions for diagnosis and treatment of patients, regardless of their age, gender, financial resources or place of residence.
in writing. − i support the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias, as alzheimer's disease affects more people in the european union each year. the ageing of the european population and the social and economic consequences also have a significant impact on the health systems of the member states, which call for urgent action and concrete initiatives to combat this serious disease. the latest findings of the alzheimer's programme show that the diagnosis of the disease is still insufficient in the european union and that there are wide disparities between member states in terms of prevention, access to treatment and provision of appropriate services. the priority should be to focus on early diagnosis and prevention of alzheimer' s disease. as diet is one of the most important factors in the development of alzheimer's disease, particular attention should be paid to priority factors such as a healthy diet, the promotion of physical and mental activity, the control of diabetes, high cholesterol, high blood pressure and smoking. it is also necessary to enhance the dignity of patients throughout their illness and to reduce inequalities, i.e. to ensure that treatment services guarantee health insurance, equal conditions for diagnosis and treatment of patients, regardless of their age, gender, income or place of residence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias, as the focus is on better cooperation between member states and more effective and solidarity-based action to improve prevention and treatment for people with dementia, particularly alzheimer's disease, as well as for people around them, whether healthcare professionals, service providers or relatives. it is important and necessary to ensure early diagnosis and a quality of life, to promote cooperation between member states through the exchange of best available experience, medical practices and clinical research in this field, and to respect the rights and expectations of people living with this serious disease. this is a crucial step towards concrete proposals that will help to integrate the different existing policies and approaches to tackle this type of disease and guarantee the maximum possible coverage and a level playing field for diagnosis and treatment of patients, regardless of the financial resources available.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a petition concerning the inaction of the european commission in the field of competition and the harmful effects of such inaction on the undertaking concerned by the case. i would like to point out that the commission's reply to the committee on petitions of the european parliament did not sufficiently address the question raised by the petitioner and the members of the committee and did not sufficiently address the concerns raised by the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament in its opinion. it is therefore necessary to call on the commission to act without delay and to complete the procedure initiated in 1997 and still pending, in accordance with the safeguard clause of article 8 of directive 93/42/ec. furthermore, the commission must immediately provide answers to the legitimate questions of the petitioner, who has been placed in this intolerable situation for 13 years and has consequently lost a considerable amount of income, and take the necessary steps to protect his rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in haiti one year after the earthquake, in which the european parliament once again expresses its solidarity with the people of haiti affected by the earthquake and cholera. i agree with the very important call for the international community, including the eu, to commit firmly and in the long term to immediately implement all the commitments made at the international donor conference in new york. it is important to take urgent action and coordinate as effectively as possible the provision of humanitarian assistance to the haitian people, of whom more than one million are still living in the camps that were supposed to be temporary. according to human rights groups, living conditions in these unprepared camps are appalling and women are "victimized by rape and sexual violence". however, in the longer term, it is clear that humanitarian aid providers are not obliged to continue to fill the gaps or to perform the functions of the state of haiti and that measures are needed to ensure sustainable development, in particular access to healthcare, drinking water and good sanitation. at the political level, the priority for the haitian state is to immediately acquire the capacity to ensure democracy and good governance in the country, as this is essential for the reconstruction of the country and the participation of civil society and the haitian people.
in writing. - i supported this resolution, which assesses the situation in haiti one year after the earthquake. the situation in the country remains complex and chaotic, with reconstruction efforts largely stalled, millions of people facing hunger and more than 800,000 children at risk of violence, sexual abuse, trafficking and exploitation. the situation in the country has deteriorated further following the political crisis following the presidential and parliamentary elections. although the international community has responded effectively to the tragedy in haiti with financial and humanitarian aid, only a fraction of the promised $10 billion has been delivered so far. the cholera epidemic in the country has demonstrated the failure of the haitian state to respond adequately to the situation and highlighted the shortcomings of the international aid system . the ongoing political unrest has prevented the resumption of reconstruction and assistance to the affected people, further exacerbating the situation. the european union, as the main provider of aid, must take a political leadership role in coordinating haiti's reconstruction efforts and ensuring that aid reaches those who need it most.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in haiti, as the european parliament once again expresses its solidarity with the people of haiti affected by the earthquake and cholera. i support the very important call for the international community, including the eu, to commit firmly and long-term to the immediate implementation of all the pledges, given that more than a million people live in camps that were built by themselves and that were meant to be temporary, and given that human rights associations report that living conditions in these unprepared camps are appalling and that women are victims of rape and sexual violence. the population is currently suffering from food shortages, and 80 percent of haitians live in abject poverty. access to healthcare, drinking water and good sanitation is essential. measures are needed to ensure the long-term development of haiti. i therefore support the eu and member states' commitment to make the recovery and reconstruction of haiti a top priority, and that the time has come to help haiti become an economically and politically strong and independent state. the international community must seize this opportunity to end the root causes of poverty in haiti once and for all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because i hope that the parliament of the republic of lithuania will have the political will to reject the proposed law which would violate human rights and freedoms. i hope that any discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation, will be prevented. the draft law has not yet been adopted by the parliament of the republic of lithuania, and the european parliament wishes to warn the european union through this resolution that the european union is concerned by such proposed draft laws which violate human rights and discriminate against citizens. furthermore, this draft amendments to the code of administrative offences contradicts article 25 of the constitution of the republic of lithuania, which provides that a person shall not be prevented from seeking, receiving and disseminating information and ideas, and article 29, which states that all persons are equal before the law and other state institutions or officials. the government of lithuania has submitted a negative opinion on the proposal under consideration in the lithuanian parliament, as it is contrary to international, european union and national legislation. furthermore, the opinion of the lithuanian parliament's human rights committee on these proposed amendments has not yet been submitted. i therefore hope that the lithuanian parliament will take into account the international and european union criticism, this european parliament resolution and the negative conclusion of the government.
the european parliament's resolution, which we will be voting on tomorrow, should send a strong message to the people of belarus, to the whole of europe and to the world. it is urgent to return to the situation that existed at least before 19 december, to join forces to take the path of consolidating democracy and human rights. the most important objective today is the release of political prisoners, the cessation of attacks against the opposition, ngos, the free press. however, i agree with the high representative that in terms of the anti-regime sentiment, we should not target belarusian citizens. we need to calculate to the nearest millimetre whether we will not harm belarusians, as well as mutually beneficial business, cultural, scientific, tourist ties with eu countries, which are necessary for belarus' opening up to europe. the policy of dialogue with belarus in recent years has borne some fruit: now almost half of belarusians are in favour of closer relations with the european union. we must respond to the events in minsk in such a way that this number will increase even more in the coming years. it would be a palpable painful payback for the organizers of december 19. finally, once again, the financial, the visa, the berlin wall, which unfortunately has been erected between the european union and its eastern neighbours, is the most difficult to overcome in belarus. it is long past time to tear down that wall and make it so that a visa to the european union is available and easily obtained for the average ukrainian, belarusian, georgian, russian and so on. the millions of euros raised by the exorbitant visa fee are not really paying off, because they are deepening the rifts inherited from the past, this time between the countries of the european union and their neighbours. it's not supposed to be.
i would like to compliment my colleague michael gahler, who, although originally from southern germany, has proved to be an excellent expert and lover of the arctic and the far north. some colleagues have spoken about the need for countries to deal with emerging problems one by one, without much coordination. i would disagree with that. the european union, which has the greatest experience of joining forces and of really going the unexplored route, should play a very important role in this region. because, of course, it's either confrontation, it's not clear competition, conflict, or peaceful cooperation and a region that could set an example for the rest of the world. another aspect is whether it is profit or economic benefit or environmental and conservation. i think that the european union, which has always been a leader in the fight against climate change, also needs to pay more attention to the second aspect when combining both approaches.
congratulations to the rapporteur, mr gahler, for initiating the very important and necessary report of the european parliament on the far north and for responding to the commission's recommendation to formulate a european union policy towards the arctic region with very specific and comprehensive proposals: from the involvement of local populations in the dialogue, stability and security in the region to future projects, environmental aspects and climate change. one fifth of the world's undiscovered reserves lie in this region. the unfair competition for access to the arctic's natural resources is highly undesirable, but real. it is therefore important to develop a dialogue to prevent the arctic region from becoming an arena for competition between states and mining companies, with local populations and the particularly sensitive arctic environment as the main victims. the report says that mining projects will increase over time in the arctic, where the effects of climate change are particularly pronounced. therefore, i think it is fair and particularly important to note that the environmental impact assessment...
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote, see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, january 13th of this year marks the 20th anniversary of the collapse of the soviet empire. in 1991, a thousand-strong unarmed mob resisted the soviet army's aggression and defended freedom and independence in lithuania. the events of the bloody night of january 13 were watched by europe and the world. states, international organizations and individuals responded to the violence of the occupying force by sending messages of support to vilnius. on behalf of all the people of lithuania, i thank the european parliament for adopting a resolution on 24 january 1991 in support of the baltic states and condemning soviet aggression. we thank the countries you represent for not leaving us alone. as a token of your appreciation, you will find a special publication in your mailbox to commemorate the occasion. to prevent a tragic event like this from happening again, we need to...
mr president, we suggest one important and short addition to paragraph 2: ‘is particularly concerned about the health of mikalay statkevich, who has been on hunger strike for the last 31 days’.
mr president, it would be appropriate to keep in mind, or maybe to include in the text, in paragraph 9, the following idea: ‘at the same time, the commission should finance the reprinting and distribution of poetry books by uladzimir niakliayeu, which were recently confiscated and thrown into fire by the belarusian authorities’. if possible, please do not oppose this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the negotiations on the eu-libya framework agreement. libya remains an authoritarian regime, its population does not enjoy basic human rights and capital punishment is regularly carried out. the state institutions are not democratically accountable and state power is not anchored in the rule of law. nevertheless, libya has expanding commercial and political relations with eu member states, and the country is strategically important for the eu. negotiations on an eu-libya framework agreement started in november 2008. however, the development of relations must ensure full respect for european values and principles, and it is important to request firmly that the council and the commission take necessary steps – such as strongly recommending that libya ratify and implement the geneva convention on refugees of 1951 and its 1967 protocol; requesting that the libyan authorities sign a memorandum of understanding granting unhcr a legal presence in the country; encouraging libya to commit to a moratorium on the death penalty, etcetera – in order to protect european values.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution as we have to condemn in the strongest terms the recent attacks on christian communities around the world – be it in egypt, pakistan, iraq or any other country. christian communities have been living in various muslim countries of the middle east since the early days of christianity. it is therefore totally unacceptable that, after centuries of peaceful cohabitation, christians should be forced to flee these countries or be closed up in ghettos. this is yet another reason to continue our struggle against islamic fundamentalists who distort reality and want to portray our global action against terrorism as an attack on the muslim world. it is precisely the islamic fundamentalists who are seeking war between religions and civilisations. we must therefore do everything possible to root out these religious fanatics and to marginalise them in their respective societies. this has to be done in cooperation with the moderate elements of muslim societies. we should therefore welcome vigorous public reactions in certain muslim countries, such as egypt for example, where the general public strongly condemned terrorist attacks against christians and demanded action against those responsible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in belarus. in minsk, more than 700 people were detained for participating in the 19 december demonstration, most of whom were released after serving short administrative sentences, while 24 opposition activists and journalists, including six presidential candidates, facing up to 15 years in prison for inciting mass unrest with violent attacks and armed resistance. the brutal use of force by the police and kgb against protesters on election day is condemned. such behaviour is a flagrant violation of the fundamental principles of democracy, such as freedom of assembly and expression, and human rights. in view of the current situation in belarus, i would urge the european commission to continue to provide financial support to the european humanitarian university (ehu) in vilnius, lithuania, to provide more scholarships to belarusian students persecuted for their civic activities and expelled from universities, and to contribute to the support of the organisation 'solidarity with belarus'.
in writing. - i support a fundamental review of eu policy towards belarus at the forthcoming foreign affairs council. i believe that belarus, as a country with a common border with the eu, and the situation therein, should be given constant attention not only in the european parliament and the commission, but also at the level of ministers and managers. the eu's coherent action towards this country could be ensured by the appointment of eu coordinators for belarus. i support the view that the eu should freeze the visa ban on the extended list of belarusian officials, but at the same time open up contacts and travel to the eu for ordinary belarusians as much as possible. lithuania is following suit, having signed a facilitated border movement agreement with belarus and issuing free visas to belarusian citizens. i also support the efforts to identify 'sensitivity points' and to decide on the application of targeted sanctions, while directing and adapting eu assistance to belarusian civil society. i invite the commission to look at ways of increasing access to independent information for the people of belarus. the european humanitarian university in vilnius is one of the most successful projects of sustainable development cooperation in belarus. in the context of the internal situation in belarus, where all paths to the development of a critical, conscious and free citizen have been blocked for a long time, the ehu is becoming not only an island of free belarusian thought, but also a hill for future belarusian leaders. it is therefore natural and welcome that eu support for the university should not only be maintained but also increased.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2009 competition policy report. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament, as one of the legislators, should be more actively involved in the formulation of competition policy provisions. to achieve this, parliament should at least be kept informed of any initiatives in this area. i am convinced that the active role of the parliament in shaping eu competition policy will make a significant contribution to the successful application of competition policy and the smooth functioning of the internal market, which are the key conditions for sustainable economic growth in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the 2009 competition policy report. the european commission's rapid response to the economic and financial crisis has led to effective competition policy measures. i would like to point out that the european parliament, as one of the legislators, should be more actively involved in the formulation of competition policy provisions. parliament must also be kept informed of any initiatives in this area. the european union's competition policy is based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors, which is a key element of a successful internal market and a precondition for the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs. i would like to stress the need to develop clear competition rules that are favourable and beneficial to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), since the successful application of competition policy and the smooth functioning of the internal market are key conditions for sustainable economic growth in the european union. i would urge the commission to pay more attention to ensuring fair competition in the internal market and equal conditions for withdrawal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the promotion of protectionism and the disregard for competition rules would only deepen and prolong the financial crisis in europe. competition policy is a crucial tool for the eu to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market, to compete globally and to overcome the financial crisis. competition in the energy sector, agricultural production and other sectors still has shortcomings, and parliament should be more actively involved in the formulation of competition policy provisions as a co-legislator. parliament's active role in shaping eu competition policy will make a major contribution to the successful application of competition policy and the functioning of the internal market, which are the key conditions and prerequisites for sustainable growth in the eu economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on a sustainable eu policy in the far north. i agree that a unified, coordinated eu policy for the arctic is necessary, with a clear definition of the eu's priorities, potential challenges and strategy, taking into account the arctic's renewable and non-renewable resources, the impact of climate change on the region and the differing geopolitical assessments of the arctic at large. the arctic is a sensitive region where the impacts of climate change are particularly pronounced and have serious implications for other regions of the world. the best way to protect the arctic is therefore to have a long-term and ambitious global climate agreement, but the rapid warming of the arctic requires exploring other possible short-term measures to limit warming in the arctic. this is particularly important in the light of the growing interest in arctic resource exploitation. local populations, whose economies are largely dependent on the sustainable use of natural resources, and therefore the mitigation of climate change and its impacts and the right of local populations to a clean natural environment are also human rights issues, should not be overlooked.
in writing. − i voted for the report on a sustainable eu policy in the far north, because climate change is the main driver of change in the arctic and beyond. it is agreed that the arctic region is the region most affected by climate change and pollution with causes in the industrialized or developing parts of the world. this problem needs to be addressed globally, because its causes are beyond the arctic region and it will in turn have an impact on the whole world. the eu is already an international leader in research and environmental and climate change policy and will continue to play this role in the future. in this context, and recalling the contribution of the eu and its member states to research, funding, its impact on the adoption of eu law on the environment, climate, fisheries and other issues, as well as the future possibilities for cooperation in mapping and maritime security, economic development and the like, it can be concluded that the eu can make a significant contribution to the sustainable development of the arctic region. this region will be crucial for a world adapting to climate change and facing challenges of growing population and resource scarcity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on a sustainable eu policy in the far north. the arctic region is receiving increasing attention due to the impact of climate change, which is the main driver of further development. europe not only has a certain responsibility as one of the major polluters and emitters of greenhouse gases, but also has a special interest in the arctic region, as it will have to deal with the consequences of changes in the region, ranging from environmental and climate change issues to shipping route geopolitics and security of supply. it is necessary to formulate the european union's policy towards the arctic in very specific and comprehensive proposals, from the inclusion of local populations in the dialogue, to stability and security in the region, to the environmental and climate change aspects of future projects. local people have the right to a clean natural environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu black sea strategy. i agree with the rapporteur that, given the importance of the black sea region to the eu and the relatively low level of synergy in the black sea, a strategy should be put in place to increase the coherence and visibility of eu action in the region and that the eu black sea strategy should be an integral part of the broader vision of eu foreign and security policy. the analysis of the current situation three years after the establishment of the black sea synergy shows in particular the lack of a clear, understandable and updated picture of the results of the implementation of the black sea synergy. the implementation of the eu black sea strategy should therefore create a stronger policy framework and promote eu engagement in the black sea region. i am of the opinion that the main objectives of the black sea strategy must be the creation of an area of peace, the stability and prosperity of the black sea, and the ensuring of the eu's energy security. this is why security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental protection, social, economic and human development must be prioritised. it is essential to include in the black sea security dimension decisive action to strengthen democracy, good governance and state capacity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the eu black sea strategy. the strategic importance of the black sea region for the eu was recognised in 2007 following the accession of romania and bulgaria. as the development of this region, strategically located at the crossroads of europe, the middle east and central asia, began to have a direct impact on eu internal affairs, the eu recognised the need to provide for greater involvement in the region. this has led the eu to launch a new policy approach to the region, known as black sea synergy. the black sea synergy aims to develop regional cooperation between the eu and the region, as well as cooperation within the region itself. unfortunately, the strategy has been far less successful, with less progress on elements such as stability, democracy and good governance, due to the deterioration of democracy in the black sea countries and the 2008 russia-georgia war. in addition, the region is still plagued by persistent conflicts, a trend towards militarisation and proliferation, maritime surveillance, illicit trade and cross-border crime. i believe that the effective implementation of this strategy requires the establishment of mechanisms for regular reporting, monitoring, evaluation and follow-up. in addition, the main objectives of the black sea strategy must be the creation of an area of peace, the stability and prosperity of the black sea, and the ensuring of the eu's energy security. this is why security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental protection, social, economic and human development must be prioritised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu black sea strategy. the strategic importance of the black sea region for the eu was recognised in 2007 following the accession of romania and bulgaria. the development of europe, the middle east and central asia began to have a direct impact on the eu's internal affairs, and the eu recognised the need to provide for a greater presence in the region. this has led the eu to launch a new policy approach to the region, known as black sea synergy. the black sea synergy aims to develop regional cooperation between the eu and the region, as well as cooperation within the region itself. i agree that the main objectives of the black sea strategy must be the creation of an area of peace, the stability and prosperity of the black sea, and the ensuring of the eu's energy security. this is why security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental protection, social, economic and human development must be prioritised. the black sea security dimension must include decisive action to strengthen democracy, good governance and state capacity. finally, the economic, social and human development of the black sea region is an important prerequisite for the transformation of the black sea into a stable and prosperous area.
yes, the situation in pakistan is extremely complicated due to both internal and external conditions, and events such as the political murder, motivated by religious reasons, of such an important person, without a doubt, immediately shocks the whole country and the whole society. after such shocks, events in the country can veer dangerously towards a rise in religious fanaticism and a curtailment of human rights. our resolution should help to ensure that the course of events is different, that in this situation the pakistani government still finds the strength to take the path of strengthening human rights and opposing religious fanaticism. and such steps on our part must be strongly supported. and, of course, the independence of the judiciary, the protection of judges in very complex cases of blasphemy.
mr president, the european council is expected to approve that no eu member state should remain an energy island after 2015. as a rule, interconnections are absent in those member states where the natural gas sector is dominated by an incumbent operator. any progress on infrastructure that would allow new-party access is very slow because vertically integrated monopolies invest mainly to further consolidate their domination, while it is hard to attract new investors to a closed market. implementation of the eu gas directive – i.e. full ownership unbundling – is the only effective and reasonable way to encourage infrastructure investments (in this case in lithuania), introduce competition and speed up integration into the eu internal energy market. however, it is absurd that an eu member state is being threatened, or even discriminated against, for implementing the eu legislation while the eu itself seems to stand aside. therefore i would ask you, colleagues, the commission and the council, to use every opportunity openly to express disapproval of pressure being put on a member state to waive implementation of the eu acquis; and to consolidate support for it at the european council meeting. i should mention, too, that the implementation of the eu gas directive in lithuania is closely followed by other member states where conditions are similar. without this access, the goal of achieving a fully integrated and functioning eu internal energy market by 2014 will be undermined.
the next decade will be crucial for the european union as a whole, as member states will have to make serious choices: to replace existing sources and infrastructure and to meet the growing energy needs that will be necessary for the future development of the european economy. this energy council meeting is really important. it could become historic if the specific principles for the development of the common internal energy market are agreed. it will indeed allow all 27 member states of the european union to coordinate their actions and focus their efforts on creating a greater and more competitive environment for our economy, increasing employment and reducing social exclusion. i think it is very important that we actually set out specific timetables to reduce or eliminate the isolation in the member states. this requires a high degree of political will and solidarity, and the development of projects that are not only commercially attractive but also essential for the european union. it is also very important, i think, to set binding timetables for member states to meet their commitments to implement these projects in time. while investment decisions are often made by market participants, political decisions also play a crucial role in creating a stable and transparent investment environment.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on behalf of the ppe group, i urge the european parliament to give the green light to this very important agreement. we believe that this will facilitate the doha round negotiations and also provide an impetus to our bilateral negotiations with the mercosur countries on a free trade agreement. we welcome the overall trend towards liberalisation of the global trade in bananas, including the current wto agreement, as well as bilateral agreements with the central american and andean countries, and possibly one day with mercosur. the motion for a resolution – and i pay tribute for this to our rapporteur – is a well-balanced one, especially since we have taken into account the interests of our partners from the acp countries, as well as local european banana producers. it is my deep conviction that, while we move towards greater liberalisation of the global trade in bananas, we should make sure that we do not wipe out industries or sectors that have traditionally played important economic and social roles in certain european regions, such as the canary islands, guadeloupe, martinique, madeira, the azores and others. finally, we hope the commission will take these concerns into account and will take steps to adjust the support package for domestic eu producers earmarked in the posei envelope and, if necessary, take other steps in order to ensure that, in parallel to the trend of liberalisation of the global trade in bananas, domestic eu producers are able to remain on the market and foster their traditional activities. a good opportunity to do that will be during the discussions on the next eu financial perspective.
in writing. we have to fight tb because nearly two million people die of tb every year, and almost one in three people in the world are infected. i would like to point out that tb is a major global health problem and the second leading cause of death from infectious diseases worldwide. tuberculosis is strongly associated with social and economic problems, such as poverty, unemployment, alcoholism, drug addiction, hiv/aids, as well as with inadequate and poor health care systems in poor countries and delayed diagnosis. so i'm glad that the tb vaccine initiative model is now ready, because the research and work that we've done could be used by tb patients all over the world. the project would also contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 targets and the millennium development goals by 2015. i would point out that the fight against tuberculosis is still underfunded and that european union funding is crucial to developing a robust package of possible new tuberculosis vaccines. i hope that progress will be made as quickly as possible towards the licensing of the current available european tb vaccines and that they will be available to those who need them most. it is also important to identify opportunities for the introduction of competitive financing mechanisms for the completion of the final clinical trial phases of new tuberculosis vaccines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation establishing a financial instrument for development cooperation. the european union's development policy aims to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty. it supports the efforts of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable economic and social development. the european union is committed to the smooth and gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy, with a view to their sustainable development. the main acp banana exporting countries may face difficulties due to changes in trade rules, in particular following the liberalisation of trade between the countries with the most favourable tariff, on the basis of the world trade organisation provisions and bilateral and regional agreements concluded or in the process of being concluded by the european union with latin american countries. the financial support measures to be adopted under the programme should aim at improving the standard of living and living conditions of the population located in banana-growing areas and living off the value chain of the banana sector, in particular of small farmers and small enterprises, as well as ensuring compliance with occupational health and safety and environmental protection standards, in particular as regards the use and exposure to pesticides. the measures should therefore support the adaptation and, where necessary, the reorganisation of banana export-dependent areas through budget support or through project-specific intervention measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because there are still many human rights violations in the world. the financial and economic crisis, climate change, the emergence of new information technologies, the fight against terrorism are exacerbating human rights problems and are giving rise to new forms of human rights violations. the global economic and financial crisis has had the greatest negative impact on the rights of the poorest. the negative impacts of climate change are particularly likely to affect vulnerable groups in developing countries. development cooperation is a very important part of the eu's external relations. it is the main instrument for reducing poverty in developing countries, developing the economies of the poorest countries, social policies, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the promotion of democracy and human rights must be the top priority of a coherent eu foreign policy.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid. we provide more than 50 percent of all global aid, setting an example for other regions and countries to follow. development cooperation is a very important part of the eu's external relations. it is the main instrument for reducing poverty in developing countries, developing the economies of the poorest countries, social policies, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. development aid, if it is implemented more effectively, offers hope that the world will be divided into 'rich' and 'poor' countries. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am in favour of calling on the european commission to draw up a compromise proposal to include the european parliament in the control of the development cooperation instrument after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament should have the same powers as the european council in deciding how much, when and where the financial instrument should be directed.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not just about free and fair elections. the promotion and protection of human rights is essential for the existence of a democratic society. the eu has often been the first to condemn human rights abuses outside the eu. for example, on monday it supported the imposition of sanctions against the regime of president a. lukashenko or criticised human rights violations in egypt and tunisia. however, there is no rush to react when it comes to human rights violations within the union. this only weakens the eu's position. the eu's external financial instruments, such as the development cooperation instrument, the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument and the stability instrument, have a high potential. however, the eu should focus on strengthening the rule of law within itself, as well as on increasing transparency and accountability in public services. i believe that democratization and the electoral process are also important for poverty reduction, sustainable development, peace and stability. if we fail to secure human rights and democracy, then we risk losing much more. it is important for the eu to have a good reputation in the field of human rights if it is to make full use of the financial instruments of its external action.
in writing. − in order to improve the efficiency and transparency of community external assistance, a new framework for aid planning and delivery was established in 2006. it is composed of council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 of 17 july 2006 establishing an instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa), regulation (ec) no 1638/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 october 2006 laying down general provisions establishing a european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, council regulation (ec) no 1934/2006 of 21 december 2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrial and other high-income countries and territories, regulation (ec) no 1717/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 november 2006 establishing a stability instrument, council regulation (euratom) no 300/2007 of 19 february 2007 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 of 18 december 2006 and regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation. the implementation of those regulations has revealed the existence of an exception to the principle of non-compliance with the union financing requirements for expenditure relating to taxes, levies, duties and other charges. it is therefore necessary to amend the relevant provisions of regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 to bring it into line with other measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a recommendation establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrial and other high-income countries and territories. the main objective pursued by regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 is the reduction of poverty in the context of the millennium development goals. cooperation with developing countries and regions under the geographic programmes established by this regulation shall cover only the financing of measures which meet the official development assistance criteria (oda criteria) established by the development assistance committee of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (hereinafter referred to as the oecd/dac). it is important for the european union to further strengthen its relations with the developing countries concerned, which are important bilateral partners and participants in multilateral fora and global governance. the union has a strategic interest in developing a wide range of relations with those countries, in particular in areas such as the economy, trade, academia, business and scientific exchanges. it therefore needs a financial instrument to finance measures which are not in principle oda in the sense of the oda criteria, but which are essential to the establishment of relations and which make a significant contribution to the progress of the developing countries concerned. in cooperating, the union should take into account the efforts of beneficiary countries to comply with the international agreements of the international labour organisation and to contribute to the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the conclusion of the agreement on trade in bananas. i am pleased that one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially significant legal disputes in the history of the wto has come to an end. i believe that the agreement reached is a solution, but it does not fully reconcile the legitimate interests of all parties and it is therefore necessary to call on the european commission to carry out an impact assessment on the impact of the agreements on banana-growing developing countries and the outermost regions of europe by 2020 without delay. i welcome the fact that the banana trade agreements are the eu's final commitments on banana market access and will be included in the final outcome of the future multilateral negotiations on agricultural market access successfully concluded during the wto doha round. i would stress that the agreements reached are progress in the doha round, albeit limited, given that the scale of the problems is much larger than the banana issue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft agreement on the banana trade. bananas are the fourth most important food product in the world and play a major role in the food supply. however, many countries grow bananas only for domestic and sometimes regional markets, and only 20 percent of the world's total production is sold internationally. banana trade is controlled by a small number of companies, of which only five multinational companies control more than 80% of the total international banana trade. on 15 december 2009, the eu, a group of latin american countries and the united states reached an agreement on eu banana import duties, the subject of perhaps the longest and most bitter dispute in the recent history of the multilateral trading system. the agreement consists of three main elements: an agreed list of reduced customs tariffs for banana exporters from the most favoured nation (mfn) countries; an agreement on the removal of preferential treatment for tropical products and certain products in the context of wider wto negotiations; a financial support package of eur 190 million for acp banana exporters; or a programme of complementary measures in the banana sector. as the banana dispute continued, the banana production and trade situation of the countries concerned became unstable. the conclusion of this agreement will make the global banana market more predictable and stable, will stimulate investment and growth, and will give greater attention to the broader issues of conditions in the banana supply chain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation repealing the council regulation on the tariff rates for bananas. under the eu's banana import regime, 775 000 tonnes of bananas were allowed to enter the eu each year duty-free from the acp countries, while bananas from all other exporting countries (suppliers of bananas from the most favoured nation (mfn) countries) were subject to a tariff of eur 176 per metric tonne. many latin american countries have long insisted that this import regime unlawfully discriminated against them and gave preference to bananas from acp countries and violated wto rules on quantitative restrictions. under the terms of the agreement, the eu will gradually reduce its customs duties on bananas exported from latin american countries until they reach an amount of eur 114 per metric tonne. the agreement provides that the banana-exporting countries of latin america shall cease all wto actions against the eu: once the wto has approved the new eu tariff schedule for bananas, the latin american banana-supplying countries will terminate all ongoing wto banana disputes with the eu and withdraw all complaints against the eu since the accession of new member states or since the eu changed its tariff for bananas in 2006 and will not seek further reductions in the tariff for bananas during the doha round.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment. the fact that waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing parts of the waste stream poses a number of challenges for us. according to the european commission's impact assessment, almost 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is now collected. a comparison of the amount of used equipment collected with the amount of equipment placed on the market shows that 65% of the equipment sold is collected. however, the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment handled is not reported to public authorities and only a small proportion is properly treated: only 33% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is officially described in reports, collected and treated in accordance with the requirements of the directive. increasing the amount of waste recycled is becoming a challenge. the member states are the key players in the fight against illegal shipments of waste. they must ensure that the directive is transposed into national law, implemented and enforced. so far, there has been a large-scale illegal shipment of waste equipment outside the eu. waste equipment is too often declared as used but still functioning equipment and exported as such from the eu. it is therefore necessary to regulate the simplified disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and used equipment.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing parts of the waste stream. on the one hand, attention should be paid to the environmental and health impacts of improper treatment or disposal of these equipment, while on the other hand, the loss of raw materials is another important issue. the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is the foundation of the global economy. therefore, increasing the collection and proper treatment of waste materials in accordance with the directive is a major challenge and a necessity. we must think about and promote the appropriate collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment, because strong measures help to promote economic growth with a balanced impact on the environment and a clean and healthy environment for our people. i agree that not only the producers, the member states, but also we ourselves, the consumers, must contribute to a clean and healthy environment, and we must take a large share of the responsibility for the proper management of waste equipment. too many appliances are forgotten or left unused on the shelves or thrown in the trash in violation of the rules. member states must pursue ambitious targets by all means available, even if the targets set will not be easy to achieve. but the fact that some countries have already achieved these goals proves that it is possible. to maintain high levels of consumption in the future, we need to treat and use the remaining natural resources more responsibly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this directive because i believe that the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment is another challenge we need to overcome. at the moment, my country, lithuania, is unfortunately very far behind the eu average in terms of the management of this waste. waste electronics and electronic equipment an excellent source of precious metals and other resources imported into the eu. if all this waste was properly managed, reused and recycled, we could save a lot of money on raw materials. i hope that the new directive, although it will take a long time to come into force, which should lead to a more perfect system for the collection, reuse and recycling of waste, will both open up new opportunities for business and reduce the burden on the end user.
in writing. − waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing waste types. the accelerating pace of life, the rapid development of technology, and the desire to have the latest and greatest equipment are to blame. in this cycle, we face two major problems: resources and waste. i voted in favour of this report because i support the aim of collecting as much of the waste as possible, recycling it and putting it back into the world. this is the only way to reduce the need for useful resources and the amount of waste going to landfill. i think that the goals that we set are achievable, but they are not easy. the new eu countries will need to make a special effort. unfortunately, we have no backup planets to spare. if we want to maintain high levels of consumption in the future, we need to be more responsible in the way we use and waste the remaining natural resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that all political, social, civic and democratic forces in tunisia are represented, as this is the only way to ensure the confidence of the population in the transitional government and its legitimacy, which is essential for the preparation of the elections and the process of democratic transition. the european union and tunisia have developed an action plan for 2011-16, and to implement this process both partners will need to make greater commitments on all issues, in particular in the area of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european parliament condemned the repression and disproportionate use of force by the security forces, but strongly supported the ongoing democratic process in the country. it is therefore essential to create the conditions for the holding of elections by a parliamentary assembly, which will be empowered to draw up a democratic constitution guaranteeing the principles of the balance between the executive and legislative powers and the independence of the judiciary, while allowing sufficient time for all opposition forces and independent media to carry out organisational work at national level. parliament hopes that all democratic forces which respect freedom of conscience, democratic change and freedom of expression will be able to take part in these elections.
in writing. − i express my solidarity with the tunisian people, who, prompted by a desire for better social conditions and easier access to employment, brought their country to an historic political turning point. the events in tunisia also rocked the foundation of undemocratic regimes in other countries. it is still not clear where the change of government will lead. i hope that all democratic forces which pledge to respect pluralism, freedom of conscience and arrangements for the democratic handover of power will be able to take part in the election of a new parliamentary assembly. i voted for this resolution because i am in favour of the eu support for tunisia's economy in the form of loans and subsidies that would offer tunisians the prospect of skilled jobs, as part of a genuine development contract to foster local and foreign productive investment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the tb vaccine initiative, as this disease is still one of the leading causes of death worldwide, killing nearly two million people every year. this initiative would target tuberculosis patients worldwide, and in particular those in the least developed countries. it would also contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 targets and the millennium development goals by 2015. in addition, the vaccination programme could enhance the union's strategic autonomy in the fight against tuberculosis and other communicable diseases. it should be noted that vaccines are the main tool to be used in conjunction with the best available tests for the detection of infection in order to combat tuberculosis. these tests must be reliable, inexpensive and accessible to all patients, and must be accompanied by more effective diagnosis and treatment. this requires a major reorientation of research and increased and sustainable funding of the vaccine package. the european commission and the member states should therefore respect their financial commitments and take all necessary steps to ensure that the funds allocated to healthcare services also reach the poorest and most vulnerable people in the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because we have to fight tuberculosis, because almost two million people die of it every year worldwide, and almost one in three of the world's population is infected. it is a major public health threat and the second leading cause of death from infectious diseases worldwide. tuberculosis is strongly associated with social and economic problems, such as poverty, unemployment, alcoholism, drug addiction, hiv/aids, as well as with inadequate and poor health care systems in poor countries and delayed diagnosis. i am pleased that the tb vaccine initiative has already been developed, as the results of research and work could be used by tb patients all over the world. i would also point out that the fight against tuberculosis is still underfunded, that specific funding measures are needed to contribute to the licensing of european tuberculosis vaccines, the availability of vaccines, clinical trials for tuberculosis and more effective diagnosis and treatment, and that funding for health services must reach the poorest and most vulnerable populations in countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the tb vaccine initiative. tb and its prevention often remain a challenge not only for the developing world but also for developed countries. the alarming annual death toll of around 2 million worldwide from tb should be reduced by a variety of measures, including sharing best practices and allocating funds for tb vaccination. on the other hand, some of the main risk and incidence factors are alcohol and drug use and high levels of poverty. it is therefore necessary to take into account not only the vaccination mentioned above but also long-term programmes to reduce the latter. so once again i welcome this eu initiative to contribute to the active eu support for vaccine programmes, which, as shown by the statistics of the eu member states, have been successful in significantly reducing the incidence of tuberculosis.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, as the vote by the parliament's committee on budgetary control showed, many people were dissatisfied with the way the european police college had managed its finances in 2008 and in previous years. this is a unique situation: no european agency has ever had a budget discharge without approval. but now it is important to look ahead. the new head of the police college, ferenc banfi, has taken on a difficult position and must regain the confidence of parliament and the taxpayers. furthermore, i believe that the ongoing debate about the ineffective management of the college's budget and human resources only distracts us from the larger problem of the lack of integrity and professionalism in police and security bodies across europe, including lithuania. we need to focus more on improving the core functions of the police college and take stronger measures to fight crime through education and specific training. as i said at the plenary session in october last year, the european police college has noble objectives: to promote common european standards of public order and to strengthen the rule of law and the rule of law. whatever the future of the college of europe, all member states must ensure that these objectives are achieved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in campania. a major effort is needed to ensure that campania complies with eu waste legislation and to reduce waste. efforts should also be made to prevent, reduce, reuse and recycle waste. more attention should be paid to the recovery of organic waste, especially in the above mentioned region, which is predominantly agricultural. it is also recommended to verify the data and to develop a system for the exchange of best practices. the european parliament considers that the exceptional measures taken by the italian authorities over a long period, including the appointment of special commissioners and the strategic status of waste treatment sites under military control, have been unsuccessful. the various authorities responsible are therefore encouraged to be much more transparent. it is also important to restore trust by maintaining a dialogue between the public and the various authorities involved and at different levels of government.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the waste crisis in campania has been a political headache for decades. this has complicated the daily life of most italians. it is important to set our priorities right, and there is no point in looking for fault. the priority now is to develop an integrated waste management plan, giving priority to waste reduction, reuse or recycling. in this case, i believe that the campania crisis provides important lessons on waste management for all europeans, including lithuania. i believe that reducing waste and managing it wisely are important environmental priorities for lithuania. a report published by the european environment agency in december 2010 noted that the total amount of waste in lithuania increased compared to 2004, with municipal waste showing a particularly steady increase without major fluctuations in the indicators. the complete lack of communication between citizens and the authorities is also a problem in both campania and lithuania. this dialogue must be re-established. we need to think creatively and think in a new way. for example, in december, a power plant producing electricity from methane gas was opened at the vilnius military landfill. for example, such factories have already been established in utrecht, marijampolje, and panevėžys. that's a good start, but it's not enough. the construction and financing of waste recycling plants (co-financing from the national budget, eu and private funds) is more important than ever, as it is the only way to reduce the real damage already being done to the environment and to the public interest.
financing for smes remains a major problem. despite the measures taken, the situation in this important sector remains critical today. i believe you are familiar with the bankwatch study, an international organisation, which analyses the distribution of european investment bank loans in four member states. the report shows that the loans granted by the european investment bank so far have been largely for the benefit of the banks themselves, with eur 15 billion allocated to them and a deadline set for finding the companies that need this support. it is worrying that although the money was received from the european investment bank, commercial banks tightened the conditions for lending to small businesses, while the money was mostly used to finance large and prosperous enterprises. i think that this situation shows that much stricter supervision and control of commercial banks is needed in this area and that the european commission also needs to play a greater role in order to prevent this aid from being misused.
i would like to express my concern about the agreement reached by the european council on a new model of economic governance. this template is intended in particular for euro area member states only. the other states are only allowed to join the coordination of this model. the question arises why only euro area member states deserve exceptional economic rescue measures, while non-euro area member states are also facing severe economic and financial difficulties and may also need assistance in the future. i think that in this case a rather negative precedent is being set in the european union, which risks creating a so-called two-speed europe. this could lead to europe's increasingly divergent growth and development rates, undermine the idea of a united european union and disappoint our citizens.
for the efd group it is good that, after deliberation and coordination of positions, the final text can be seen as the result of a well-balanced compromise. since it guarantees the rights of passengers without encumbering the carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. the european parliament can consider the conciliation procedure to have been successful, and i welcome that. given the constant growth of this transport sector, the proposal aims to establish protection rights for passengers throughout the european union, similar to those enjoyed by other modes of transport, and to ensure a level playing field for carriers from different member states involved in different modes of transport. the regulation confirms the right of passengers to compensation in the event of death, including reasonable funeral expenses, as well as for personal injury or for lost or damaged luggage in the event of an accident. in addition, in the event of an accident, the passenger shall have the right to assistance and to the provision of basic practical needs, including, if necessary, food, clothing, facilitated transport, first aid and accommodation. in the event of cancellation or delay of more than 120 minutes, passengers are entitled not only to a refund of the ticket price but also to an additional compensation of 50% of the ticket price. the regulation also provides for the provision of assistance to the disabled, which is very important, and to persons with reduced mobility. passengers shall be informed by electronic means in a timely manner. that's a good decision, congratulations!
i think that the evaluation of the services directive has given us a good opportunity to check whether it is really helping to develop the services sector better and whether the provisions of the directive are being properly implemented in the member states. it is necessary to respect the agreement on the exclusion of public services from the scope of the directive at all stages of the implementation of this directive, while ensuring social rights and respecting labour law requirements. it is clear that the commission and the member states need to do more to ensure that high-quality contact points are set up in the member states. appropriate funding should be provided to ensure the availability and quality of the information provided by these centres.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cancian, because the document we have adopted today is the result of a really good and well-balanced compromise. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 30 june 2010. and the citizens of the european union will feel more secure. the agreement also improves the conditions for the travel of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. it also lays down very clear rules on compensation and aid. i believe that this will go a long way towards improving the conditions of our citizens' passengers and provide them with more legal clarity in the event of an accident or other unforeseen circumstances.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it contains important amendments. the fact that disarmament, and more specifically cooperation on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as the principles of democracy and human rights in a state governed by the rule of law, are becoming a key provision of the agreement is to be welcomed. these are very important provisions that will contribute to the maintenance of peace and security in the region and to the respect for human rights and the development of democracy. the agreement also includes the principle of aid effectiveness as an objective of development cooperation and states that priority is given to actions that, in combating poverty, contribute in particular to the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs). it should be noted that the revision of the agreement in the context of south africa's development has undoubtedly extended cooperation to include many new areas, and this extension, which was only envisaged as an option in the original 1999 agreement, was desired by both parties. it is also important that a strong focus is placed on commercial, economic and free trade issues, which should contribute to the economic development of the region.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the revised agreement made some interesting changes to the original agreement. they are primarily development-related: disarmament is made a core provision of the agreement, in particular cooperation on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as are the principles of democracy and human rights in a state governed by the law; the principle of aid effectiveness is included as an objective of development cooperation and priority is given to actions that contribute in particular to the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) by fighting poverty. i support the desire to consolidate support for the international criminal court and its work to curb impunity and ensure respect for international justice, and to pursue a comprehensive political dialogue on cooperation on migration from now on. in this context, and in particular in the context of the development-cooperation nexus, the issue covers, but is not limited to, the following areas: poverty reduction, improvement of living and working conditions and job creation strategies; participation of migrants in the development of their countries of origin; cooperation in capacity building, in particular in the health and education sectors, to offset the negative impact of the brain drain from south africa on the sustainable development of south africa; and legal, fast and low-cost means of repatriating remittances from out-of-country persons. the most important aspects are: peace, maintenance of security in the region, respect for human rights and the development of democracy, and the fight against poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the eea efta states (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) have helped to reduce economic and social disparities in the eea countries since the entry into force of the agreement on the european economic area (eea) in 1994. the last five-year period of financial contributions ended in 2009 (eur 1,467 billion). the commission's current proposal contains four agreements. the agreements cover eur 1.8 billion, comprising the eea financial mechanism, up 31% compared to the 2004-2009 period, and the norwegian financial mechanism, up 22%. the outcome of these negotiations is in line with the negotiating directives of the council, which called for a substantial increase in funding. the eea funds will be allocated to the 12 new member states plus greece, portugal and spain. the priority sectors include environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy, civil society, human and social development and protection of cultural heritage. the norwegian funds will be allocated to the 12 newest member states. the priority sectors include carbon capture and storage, eco-industrial innovation, research and scholarship, human and social development, justice and home affairs, decent jobs and tripartite dialogue. two protocols on special concessions apply to the fisheries sector in iceland and norway for the period 2009 to 2014, which provide for the renewal of the former protocols for the period 2004 to 2009 without modification of the concessions granted to iceland and with a slight increase of the concessions granted to norway, on the basis of which norway will renew the fisheries transit agreement.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report because the eu has exclusive competence in the various aspects of external aviation which have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements between member states and third countries. in this context, in 2003 the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with third countries on the replacement of certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements with agreements with the eu. the agreement was signed on 14 july 2010. it covers aspects such as safety, aviation fuel taxation, competition rules, etc. the conclusion of this agreement was a first important step in strengthening eu-brazil relations in the field of aviation, providing an opportunity to further improve eu-brazil cooperation in this area and to start negotiations on a comprehensive eu-brazil air services agreement. this agreement is based on gradual market opening and regulatory cooperation and cohesion. the agreement is expected to generate additional revenue of up to eur 460 million due to the increased number of customers (which will increase due to lower prices). the agreement will also have a positive impact on employment and create new business opportunities for eu airlines, as well as benefiting members of the travelling public.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation, which led to the signing on 28 february 2008 of the protocol between the european union, the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to the agreement between the european union, the european community and the swiss confederation on the swiss confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. only switzerland joined the schengen area on 12 december 2008 by abolishing border controls at land borders and on 29 march 2009 by abolishing border controls at internal schengen airports. for the first time, there was a need to establish border control points in a place where there had been virtually no wall for 100 years. the 41 km border between the two countries has become the external border of schengen. in 2007, the european parliament was asked for the first time to deliver its opinion on the conclusion of this protocol. following a request by the then appointed rapporteur, ms e. klamt, the legal affairs committee delivered its unanimous opinion on 11 june 2007, recommending that the legal basis be changed to refer to the second subparagraph of article 300 (3) of the ec treaty, which requires the consent of the european parliament rather than merely consulting it. i agree with these new rules, which have been introduced with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and which provide for more detailed information to the european parliament on international agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation on the signing, on 28 february 2008, of the protocol between the european union, the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to the eu agreement establishing an association between the european union and the swiss confederation, on the one hand, and the principality of liechtenstein, on the other, on the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. only switzerland joined the schengen area on 12 december 2008 by abolishing border controls at land borders and on 29 march 2009 by abolishing border controls at internal schengen airports. for the first time, there was a need to establish border control points in a place where there had been virtually no wall for 100 years. the 41 km border between the two countries has become the external border of schengen. i agree with these new rules, which have been introduced with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and which provide for more detailed information to the european parliament on international agreements. as a result of the gradual expansion of the schengen area, third countries which have special relations with the eu have also started to participate in schengen cooperation. the precondition for non-eu countries seeking association with the schengen acquis is an agreement to ensure the free movement of persons when travelling from these countries to the eu and vice versa. for those countries, such participation means that they join the area without internal border controls, that they apply the provisions of the schengen acquis in full and of all relevant instruments adopted in accordance with the schengen acquis, that they participate in the decision-making process concerning the schengen acquis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation, which states that the agreement with the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for establishing the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland, signed on 26 october 2004 (the 'dublin agreement with switzerland'), provides for the possibility of accession of liechtenstein in application of the dublin acquis. on 27 february 2006, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with liechtenstein and switzerland. following the negotiations, a draft was submitted for liechtenstein's accession to the dublin agreement with switzerland. the european commission's proposal of 4 december 2006 for a protocol of accession for liechtenstein was based on the first subparagraph of article 300 (3) of the treaty establishing the european community, which provides for a hearing of the european parliament. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is reviewing the draft council decision and that the negotiations on liechtenstein's accession to the dublin agreement with switzerland are continuing. at its first reading, parliament had already stated that the conclusion of this protocol with liechtenstein would require the consent of the european parliament. in view of the successful conclusion of the negotiations with liechtenstein and the changed legal basis, the conclusion of this protocol should be approved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which states that the agreement signed in 2004 with the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland (hereinafter referred to as the 'dublin agreement with switzerland') provides for the possibility of accession of liechtenstein in application of the dublin acquis. it is welcome that the european parliament is reviewing the draft council decision and that the negotiations on liechtenstein's accession to the dublin agreement with switzerland are continuing. in view of the successful conclusion of the negotiations with liechtenstein and the changed legal basis, the conclusion of this protocol should be agreed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of an eu-brazil agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. this eu-brazil agreement establishes a reciprocal visa-free regime for all citizens of brazil and the eu travelling for tourism and business purposes as defined in the agreement, including citizens of the four member states estonia, latvia, cyprus and malta who are currently not able to travel to brazil without a visa. it should be noted that under the common visa policy and due to the exclusive competence of the european union in this area, only the union, and not individual member states, can negotiate and conclude a visa waiver agreement. it is important that, in order to ensure a level playing field for all eu citizens, the agreement includes a provision allowing brazil to suspend or withdraw its application only in respect of all eu member states. the union may, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, suspend or terminate this agreement only on behalf of all member states. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to ensure the implementation of the principle of reciprocity in eu visa policy.
in writing. − under council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, brazilian citizens can travel to all eu member states without a visa for short stays. however, brazil still requires visas from citizens of four member states (estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia) to enter its territory. other member states have bilateral agreements with brazil on visas, under which their nationals may enter brazil without a visa for a short period. the european union has exclusive external competence in this area, which means that only the european union, and not individual member states, can negotiate and conclude an agreement on visa-free travel. on 18 april 2008 the council therefore adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and brazil on the short-stay visa waiver. following the negotiations, the agreement was ratified and formally signed on behalf of the union and brazil in brussels on 8 november 2010. i think it is necessary to approve this agreement on visa-free travel so that all eu citizens, including those from estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, can travel to brazil for tourism and business purposes without a visa, just as brazilian citizens can already travel to all eu member states without a visa. the common eu visa policy must therefore be strengthened without delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of an eu-brazil agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. under council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, brazilian citizens can travel without a visa for short periods to all member states of the european union. however, brazil still requires visas from citizens of four member states (estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia) to enter its territory. other member states have bilateral agreements with brazil on visas, under which their nationals may enter brazil without a visa for a short period. in the context of a common visa policy and given the exclusive competence of the european union in this area, only the union, and not individual member states, can negotiate and conclude a visa waiver agreement. it is necessary to approve this visa-free agreement so that all eu citizens, including citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, can travel to brazil for tourism and business purposes without a visa, in the same way that brazilian citizens can already travel to all eu member states without a visa. therefore, measures in this area should be taken without delay.
in writing. − this agreement establishes a reciprocal visa-free regime for short-stay travel for all citizens of the european union and of brazil holding diplomatic, service or official passports. in order to ensure a level playing field for all eu citizens with regard to the visa waiver regime, article 8 of the agreement provides that brazil may suspend or withdraw the agreement only in respect of all member states and, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, the eu may suspend or withdraw the agreement only in respect of all member states. the agreement provides for the establishment of a committee of experts to settle any dispute arising from the interpretation or application of the provisions of the agreement. the agreement also provides for the exchange of models of passports between brazil and the member states. i believe that the preservation of the existing bilateral agreements should remain of paramount importance to the european union, as they provide for a short-term visa-free regime for those categories of travellers who are not covered by the eu-brazil agreement. in this context, it should be recalled that the european union could make a reservation to suspend the application of the eu-brazil visa waiver regime in the event of brazil's denunciation of bilateral agreements. this agreement on visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports is a step forward towards establishing a full reciprocal exemption from the visa regime under regulation no 539/2001.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it establishes a reciprocal visa-free regime for short-stay travel for all eu and brazilian citizens holding diplomatic, service or official passports. in order to ensure a level playing field for all eu citizens, article 8 of the agreement provides that brazil may suspend or withdraw the agreement only in respect of all member states of the union and, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, the eu may suspend or withdraw the agreement only in respect of all member states. this agreement on visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports is a step forward towards establishing a full reciprocal exemption from the visa regime under regulation no 539/2001.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the implementation of the services directive, which entered into force in 2006. this directive aims to open the european union market to service providers, to remove protectionist restrictions on the provision of services by member states and to satisfy the principle of freedom of movement, which is the basis of the single market. in short, european service providers must have the right to do their work throughout the european union without bureaucratic obstacles. the directive covers a wide range of services, which generate 40% of the eu's gross domestic product (gdp). we hope that the implementation of this directive could potentially generate up to eur 140 billion in profits and increase the european union's gdp by 1.5%. however, in order to deliver the expected benefits, it is necessary to implement the directive properly. unfortunately, it has already been established that not all eu member states managed to fully transpose it into their national law by the end of 2009. i agree that the establishment of contact centres is a key element in the effective implementation of this directive. these centres are designed to provide the necessary information and to enable all procedures to be carried out electronically and not only in the national language. according to the european commission, 22 eu member states have established such centres, but only 17 of them have e-government portals, which still vary considerably from one country to another. it should be emphasised that without properly functioning single contact centres, users will not have all the information, which will impede the achievement of the objectives set out in the directive.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the aim of the services directive is to make it easier for service providers, in particular the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, to carry on their activities, to develop new business areas and to recruit staff in other member states. the services sector, which accounts for 40% of the european union's gross domestic product, is of particular importance for economic growth and the fight against unemployment. this directive is an important step towards the creation of a single market for services, which should enable businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to provide better services in the internal market at more competitive prices and to exploit the significant economic and job-creation potential of the internal market for european services. in order to allow service providers to reap the benefits of the services directive, it is necessary to ensure that the provisions of this directive are fully and timely implemented in the member states. i believe that the commission must closely monitor the implementation of the directive in the member states and report on its implementation on a regular basis in order to remove the remaining barriers in the services sector and to exploit the economic potential of this sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the services directive aims to open up the european union market to service providers, to remove protectionist restrictions on the provision of services by member states and to satisfy the principle of freedom of movement, which is the basis of the single market. the scope of the services directive covers, in principle, all services of a commercial nature offered by a service provider established in a member state. services of general interest, financial services, communications services, employment agency services, health care services and social services in the field of care, childcare and housing construction are not included. services of general interest are not included in the scope of this directive and it is not in any way intended to weaken the provision of basic public services. in addition to a clear distinction between services falling within the scope of this directive and services of general economic interest, it is necessary to ensure that services of general economic interest are covered by the adoption of basic legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the implementation of the services directive, which entered into force in 2006. this directive aims to open the european union market to service providers, to remove protectionist restrictions on the provision of services in the member states and to satisfy the principle of freedom of movement, which is the basis of the common market. the meaning and purpose of the services directive is to shape access to the markets of the member states in such a way as to reduce deliberate barriers and/or to ensure that the rules in force in the member states are appropriate and non-discriminatory. the european parliament attached great importance to ensuring that this legislation did not affect either workers' rights or labour law. service providers in europe must have the right to operate throughout the european union without bureaucratic obstacles. the directive covers a wide range of services, which generate 40% of the eu's gross domestic product (gdp). i agree that the establishment of contact points is a key element in the effective implementation of this directive.
in writing. − the adoption of the services directive was aimed at facilitating the conditions for businesses wishing to cross national borders. the system created has significantly reduced the administrative burden. however, experience shows that in some eu member states, there are still a number of bureaucratic obstacles for small businesses to overcome. the one-stop shop principle is not yet working or not working properly in many countries, with businesses sometimes still having to obtain endless licenses and being audited by a multitude of regulatory authorities. these inconveniences are not limited to local businesses, but also to service providers wishing to provide services in other eu member states. i therefore support the text of the report and call on the eu member states to continue to make it easier for businesses to operate and to ensure the free movement of services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the ep's position on the protection of passenger rights. this refers to scheduled services for journeys within and between eu member states where the planned distance is no more than 250 km. we are talking about the rights of bus passengers in cases where a city or long-distance bus service is cancelled or delayed for more than 120 minutes. passengers must then be offered the choice immediately, whether they wish to continue their journey, whether they wish to travel to the intended destination by another route at no additional cost, or whether they wish to receive a refund of the ticket price. if the carrier does not provide this option, the passenger is entitled to additional compensation in addition to the compensation for the ticket. it is also important that passengers are provided with all the necessary information in the event of cancellation or delay. in addition, the aid must also be granted in the event of cancellation of a journey of more than three hours or a delay of more than 90 minutes. in this case, food or refreshments must be offered, as well as accommodation in a hotel for a maximum of two nights. unfortunately, the obligation to provide accommodation does not apply if the trip is cancelled or delayed due to severe weather conditions or a major natural disaster. i think that in view of the difficulties experienced by passengers this winter, when they were prevented from reaching their destination by the weather and had to spend even a few nights in the stations, their right to accommodation should be guaranteed.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. with the growth of the transport sector and the mobility of eu citizens, it is necessary to establish protection rights for passengers that apply across the eu and ensure a level playing field for carriers from different member states. air passengers have long enjoyed many rights, and two years ago the eu's rail and air passengers were unified in their rights and enjoyed a high level of protection. similar rights must be guaranteed to people travelling by bus and improved mobility for people with reduced mobility. i believe that after long and difficult negotiations, a really good and balanced agreement has been reached with the council, which fully protects passenger rights without imposing any burden on the carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the european parliament's position on the protection of passenger rights. i believe that this will contribute to improving the conditions of passengers and provide them with more legal clarity in the event of an accident or other unforeseen circumstances, and that the implementation of the passenger rights enshrined in this document will not impose an additional burden on carriers, the majority of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. the most important thing is that the rights of passengers on bus routes will be similar to those of passengers using other modes of transport.
in writing. − today we voted in favour of a document which, while not ideal, is nevertheless a good compromise, having brought the council and the european parliament to an agreement. this regulation lays down rules on compensation for damage in the event of accidents or delays, on the handling of passenger complaints and on the rights of disabled persons, as regards passenger rights. it is of course not satisfactory that the regulation will apply to distances of 250 km or more. this would not be very fair in the case of small countries, but it is not just local routes that are at issue here, but international ones as well, and i believe that this document will be a guarantor of the rights of eu citizens travelling, with a particular focus on the rights of disabled people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft resolution extending the rights of passengers in urban and long-distance bus transport. this document is the result of a long-standing compromise, which does not impose an additional burden on carriers in the exercise of their rights. i think it is important to ensure that passengers on bus routes enjoy rights similar to those enjoyed by other modes of transport throughout the european union, and that carriers are guaranteed a level playing field. in order to ensure that the compensation for damage suffered is adequate, i support the proposal to set compensation limits to be respected by the member states. it is particularly important to ensure fair and adequate compensation in the event of death, and i therefore consider that at national level the ceiling for such compensation cannot be lower than the minimum amount laid down in the regulation. in addition, adequate and operational assistance must be ensured in the event of an accident, by providing the passenger with the most essential services and supplies. i agree with the provisions of the regulation which provide passengers with appropriate guarantees and even provide for additional compensation in the event of cancellation or delay. it is to be welcomed that the regulation pays particular attention to disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility, providing them with the necessary assistance during their journey.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to ensure that service providers treat passengers fairly and that disabled people do not encounter obstacles when using transport services. it is important to ensure a level playing field between carriers from different member states and between different modes of transport. we need a well-balanced compromise that will guarantee passenger rights in all eu countries, which sometimes vary greatly in size, while not imposing a heavy burden on carriers, many of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. most importantly, any new rules will improve the quality and competitiveness of the eu transport sector. however, road safety is not to be overlooked. in lithuania we are highly dependent on road transport more than 90% of all travellers use cars. the use of buses for urban and long-distance transport accounts for about 8%. a very important issue which i think has not been sufficiently addressed is road safety. according to eu statistics, there are 110 road deaths per million inhabitants in lithuania. for comparison, for the same population, sweden has 39 deaths, the united kingdom 41. this lithuanian figure is intolerable and far above the eu average of 70. that has to change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the ep endorses a new eu regulation introducing co2 limits as of 2014 for light commercial vehicles (lcvs). i believe that new requirements and co2 limits will help to fight global warming, lower running costs through savings on fuel and boost innovation and the competitiveness of european car manufacturers. with these rules, green technologies have to be built into the vehicles which need to stay affordable. starting in 2014, 70 percent of new commercial vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes must comply with an average emission limit of 175 grams co2 per kilometre. in 2020, the limit will decrease to 147 grams. it is an ambitious, but feasible, plan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. at its meeting of 8 and 9 march 2007, the european council made a firm commitment to reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions in the community by at least 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020, or by 30% if other developed countries commit to similar emission reductions and more economically advanced developing countries contribute appropriately to this target within their capabilities. in order to achieve the necessary emission reductions, policies and measures at member state and union level should be implemented across all sectors of the union economy, not just the industrial and energy sectors. road transport is the second largest greenhouse gas polluting sector in the union and its emissions, including those from light commercial vehicles, are continuously increasing. if road transport emissions continue to rise, this could undermine efforts by other sectors to curb climate change. until now, there has been no legislation in the eu on co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, although the demand for this transport is increasing in the eu. i think we have managed to agree with the council on a balanced document that will reduce co2 emissions and encourage the automotive sector to invest in new and less polluting technologies.
in writing. −light commercial vehicles are mainly used by business entities, including small and medium-sized enterprises. at present, light commercial vehicles account for about 12% of the car fleet. it must also be recognised that these vehicles are usually purchased in large quantities to supplement the fleet and are therefore already selected with regard to their economy and running costs. the average reduction in co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles was 0.4 to 0.5% per year between 2002 and 2007, but this increase in fuel efficiency was rendered meaningless by the increase in transport demand and the production of larger vehicles. it is therefore necessary to adjust the community targets for new light commercial vehicles in order to avoid fragmentation of the internal market which may result from different measures adopted at member state level. in addition, in order to set co2 emission standards for new light commercial vehicles, it is necessary to avoid the risk of regulatory inadequacies that may arise due to the partial overlap between the registration of passenger cars and that of light commercial vehicles.
in writing. − i supported the provision that the light commercial vehicle sector should make the same effort to reduce co2 emissions as the passenger car sector. this would allow manufacturers to bring new vehicles with improved co2 emissions to the market. this would enable consumers to have access to more intelligent vehicles and to contribute more to reducing co2 emissions from vehicles. the objective of this proposed legislation is to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles. this is more difficult than in the case of passenger cars, as the body shape of light commercial vehicles cannot be changed quickly or cheaply to increase their efficiency. all modifications shall be made to the engines or to the mechanical parts. these investments are quite substantial. however, i doubt that this proposal will achieve the objective pursued, as there are serious concerns about whether the measures in question will achieve the original objective of preventing climate change, and whether the proposed targets and timetable are realistic, economically justified and do not reduce competitiveness in this sector. however, i believe that three aspects should be taken into account more: the economic downturn and its negative impact on car manufacturers and consumers, the need to support industry (manufacturers) rather than putting pressure on it through onerous measures (or even fines), the need to support business (consumers) rather than burdening it with additional costs through questionable policy measures.
in writing. − we need to reduce co2 emissions as much as possible, and it is therefore essential to set an appropriate emission limit for vehicles, taking into account the negative effects on the environment and human health. however, the proposal in the resolution to tighten the emission limit for new light commercial vehicles to the same level as that for passenger cars is to be considered in particular because of the measures envisaged to achieve this objective and their impact on van manufacturers. the proposal to install speed limiters in cars would have a negative impact on the position of business operators, reducing their competitiveness on the international market. furthermore, van manufacturers would have to increase their prices in line with the costs they incur. therefore, before such important decisions are taken, detailed scientific studies should be carried out demonstrating that the introduction of speed limiters would significantly reduce co2 emissions. a clear and adequate credit mechanism and incentive initiatives must also be established. i believe that more attention should be paid to incentive financing measures in order to increase the competitiveness of the european automotive industry.
in writing. − the creation of common patent protection in the european union is an integral part of the development of innovation and the promotion of competitiveness. i supported this resolution, which will help member states to cooperate more closely in the creation of common patent protection. the european union has a fragmented patent system, with high certification costs and complexity across member states. although more than nine eu member states have now declared their intention to start closer cooperation among themselves in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, the commission and the participating member states should encourage the widest possible involvement of the member states. stronger cooperation would facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market, remove barriers to the free movement of services, increase the number of inventors and allow for the use of common patent protection throughout the eu.
in writing. − the creation of a single community (now european union) patent system and the provision of effective patent protection throughout the eu a step towards greater eu competitiveness. inventors currently working in the european union are at a disadvantage compared to their counterparts in other countries around the world: protecting an invention across the eu is a long and costly process. it is regrettable that procedural difficulties prevent the establishment of a uniform system across the eu. nevertheless, i welcome the member states' decision to embark on a closer cooperation procedure in the field of patent protection (i am particularly pleased that lithuania is among these countries) and i vote in favour of approving this cooperation.
in writing. − i support this resolution on the proposal for a council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection. given the current situation, where obtaining a european patent is very difficult and expensive, i support the proposal to introduce a closer cooperation procedure and to allow all interested eu countries to develop a common patent system. we must make every effort to resolve the issue of the language regime, which will reduce the costs incurred by eu companies seeking to obtain a european patent. moreover, an effective patent protection would simplify dispute resolution procedures and reduce administrative burden. it is good to see that many countries in the european union are contributing to the creation of a common patent initiative, and i am confident that the rest of the countries will also join the goal of creating a common patent in the short term in order to improve the conditions for economic liberalisation in the european union. only through enhanced cooperation will the proper functioning of the internal market be facilitated and possible obstacles to the free movement of goods be removed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on maximum permitted levels of radiation in food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiation exposure. we all remember the chernobyl disaster of 26 april 1986, when high levels of radioactive material were released into the atmosphere, contaminating food (cereals, vegetables, berries and mushrooms) and animal feed in several european countries and posing a serious threat to human health. the soil was also contaminated by radioactive fallout, which increased the radioactivity of forest and agricultural food products from the affected areas. the eu has one of its objectives: to provide high-quality protection of human health. it is therefore urgently necessary to establish a system allowing the european union to set maximum permitted levels of radiation in the event of a nuclear accident or any other radiological accident resulting in the contamination of food and feed by radioactive elements, in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health. all eu citizens must be protected to the fullest extent possible in the event of a nuclear or radiation accident, and the european commission must be ready to respond quickly. maximum levels of contamination fixed in advance must be applied to food and feed.
in writing. −a high level of human health protection is one of the objectives which the union must pursue in defining its policies. the eu regulations setting emission levels in the event of a nuclear or radiation accident have remained unchanged since 1990 and it is therefore necessary to review and update these provisions. a comprehensive system should be established to allow the union to set maximum permitted levels of radiation pollution in the event of a nuclear or other radiological accident which may cause significant contamination of food and feed by radioactive elements, in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health. i agree that the permitted levels of radiation pollution should be reviewed regularly in order to take account of the latest international scientific developments and scientific advice and to eliminate existing differences in regulatory practice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to establish a procedure for the establishment of maximum permitted levels of radiation for food and feed which may be placed on the market following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiation accident which has caused or is likely to cause significant radiation contamination of food and feed. at the same time, maximum levels of contamination of food and feed are set out in annexes i and iii to the regulation. although the present proposal is subject to the new wording methodology, i believe that a substantial amendment of the proposal, and not just the 'black' part, is necessary in order to ensure legal certainty and the consistency of the texts. it is necessary to simplify the procedure in the event of a radiation accident by clearly assigning a supervisory role to the european commission and clarifying the regime of its acts (amendment, revision). in addition, efforts should be made to better address the interests of citizens in the management of the post-disaster situation. it is necessary to ensure the legal certainty of the whole proposal by harmonising unnecessary procedures, i.e. the comitology procedures in the field of the euratom treaty, which have been adopted by analogy and which this proposal seeks to codify with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important document on maximum permitted levels of radiation in food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiation accident. it is necessary and important to establish maximum permitted levels for food and feed in order to ensure a high level of public health protection, in order to avoid a repetition of the chernobyl tragedy, where foodstuffs (cereals, vegetables, berries, mushrooms, etc.) and animal feed were contaminated, as well as soil contaminated by radioactive fallout, which increased the radioactivity of forest and agricultural foodstuffs from the affected areas. we must develop a mechanism to ensure adequate and effective safety in the event of a nuclear or radiological accident. the protection of human health by quality is one of the european union's fundamental objectives.
in writing. − today we voted on the maximum permitted levels of radiation exposure to food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiation emergency, a regulation which lays down the rules of procedure for responding to nuclear or radiation accidents. it is a purely technical document, dealing essentially with the limits of the competences of the commission, the council and the member states and the setting of emission levels. i would like to highlight one amendment proposed by the ep, which proposes to include a provision on compensation for farmers whose land has been contaminated by toxic substances in the event of a nuclear or radiation accident. the fact that we are living in a time of great instability and that, as certain examples show, human-induced economic activity can often be the cause of major disasters, means that we need to have clear provisions in legislation on how to respond to emergencies.
in writing. - i support the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radiation pollution in food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiation accident. the protection of human health is one of the european union's priority objectives, and we must therefore develop a mechanism to ensure adequate and effective safety in the event of a nuclear or radiation accident. the levels of radiation contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident must be regulated with particular strictness in view of the possible negative consequences for society. we must take all possible measures to reduce the contamination of food by radioactive particles in the air in the event of an accident and to reduce radiation exposure to a minimum. i support the proposal to apply the eu's core environmental protection principle 'the polluter pays' by ensuring an effective compensation mechanism in the event of a disaster, with particular attention to farmers who would suffer the most damage in this case.
in writing. the green paper presented by the european commission provides a compelling argument for improving current pension systems. however, it should be borne in mind that most of the solutions proposed are socially sensitive. therefore, not only the benefits of solutions but also the potential risks must be carefully weighed. this is particularly the case when it comes to raising the retirement age or reducing the influence of member states on pension policy. although the commission considers the extension of the retirement age to be one of the most inexpensive ways of adapting to a longer life expectancy, it does not make any specific proposals for the employment of older people in the labour market. many unemployed people of retirement age may find themselves in poverty while still having the opportunity to retire. and the health of people is underestimated. it is also necessary to take into account that women are more likely than men to work in low-paid, part-time jobs, lose insurance coverage due to childbirth and motherhood, care of children, disabled family members and, ultimately, receive lower pensions. i think that more attention should be paid to other ways of improving pension systems, such as early entry into employment, better reconciliation of work and family life, 'flexible' retirement age, introduction of common minimum standards for pensions, etc. in any event, i would regard the green paper as a serious step towards ensuring normal living conditions for current and future pensioners.
member of the commission. − it remains to be seen whether apple will become dominant in the market, because the market is evolving. we need to assess what the market is and what a dominant position means in this market. as far as market scale goes, at this stage this is small, and it is premature to speak about any action by the commission. if there are lots of competitive proposals and an apple approach does not constitute a dominant position, then there is no need for the commission to take action. as i said, the commission is monitoring the situation according to the rules of eu competition law, and if there is a need for steps to be taken, they will be taken independently when the moment is right, when we conclude that action needs to be taken. so rest assured that action will be taken, if necessary.
member of the commission. − madam president, with a total stock of eur 92 billion of foreign investment at the end of 2008, the european union is by far the largest foreign investor in the russian federation. with regard to the energy sector, it is the eu’s firm intention to ensure that the key principles enshrined in the energy charter treaty will also be part of the ongoing negotiations between the european union and the russian federation on the new treaty. the relevant provisions should include investment protection for the energy sector and, in particular, a strong dispute settlement mechanism. this approach would be without prejudice to the eu general assessment that the energy charter treaty continues to be a valuable multilateral instrument to govern international energy relations. its unique feature is that it sets legally-binding rules on investment protection transit and that it contains provisions on dispute resolution in the energy sector. the european union considers that russia’s renewed engagement in the energy charter process, as expressed in the last eu-russia summit, is very important and it will follow a constructive and open approach in that regard. in this context, the eu welcomes the russian interest in a legally binding energy framework, following its recent proposal for a draft convention on ensuring international energy security. the modernisation of the energy charter process would be the appropriate context for multilateral negotiations on this proposal.
i have an additional question. in the european parliament we are currently working on the future european investment policy. when it comes to russia, we often hear about the expansion of russian companies in the european market, especially in the energy sector, but at the same time european investors face enormous difficulties when they want to invest in russia, especially in sectors that russia deems as strategic, such as the energy sector. so how is the commission going to ensure that the principle of reciprocity in the investment relationship is upheld in the new partnership agreement?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i am pleased that the subject of small and mediumsized enterprises is, for the second day in a row, at the centre of a parliamentary debate. last night we discussed the cip but also how we can help small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises to access community funding under the forthcoming eighth framework programme, and also what we have done and are doing for this category of enterprises. as i said in my speech - and as i said last night - i consider support for small and mediumsized enterprises to be a priority for a number of reasons. firstly, we must not fail to see small and mediumsized enterprises as a key instrument for overcoming the crisis. with the europe 2020 document, we have put the real economy back at the centre of economic policy. small and mediumsized enterprises are the lifeblood of our real economy and, especially in the long term, i believe that small and mediumsized enterprises can also play a decisive role from a social point of view, because they will be the ones creating new jobs within the european union, even when the restructuring of large industries is under way. so we must put small and mediumsized enterprises in a position to be competitive: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the community. thanks to the support of the european parliament, we have approved the directive, which is part of the small business act, on late payment by public administrations and also in the b2b sector: this is a great achievement and i hope that the member states will apply the rule which is now binding throughout the european union within 24 months, starting last october - and perhaps even before the deadline. this means putting about eur 180 billion into circulation for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. that's not all. i have set up - as underlined in parliament's document on sme and cip policies - the sme finance forum, a new commission institution, as a forum for examining and finding solutions to the problems of access to credit. it is no coincidence that the london stock exchange has been persuaded to participate in this initiative for the first time: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so the financial economy is supporting and serving the real economy, which i think is an important signal. i will be keen to continue to support the work of the sme finance forum on access to credit and to identify all initiatives, including those of cross-border venture capital and the attempt to unblock bottlenecks between the european investment bank and the national lending institutions, which are then the ones providing the finance. how should we work to make access to community funding easier? we are working on the next eighth framework programme: i repeat what i said last night because not if the members present this evening were also present yesterday: as regards reach, i have reduced the tax on registration of smes by up to 60% and for micro-enterprises by up to 90%; i have also had the implementing rules of the reach regulation translated into all the languages of the european union. so a strong signal has been given in this direction, especially for smes. we intend to do the same for micro-enterprises in the construction sector. i have also held a number of meetings on microcredit. i also discussed this matter at length at a meeting in brussels two weeks ago with the italian government's head of the new microcredit agency, which i think is a good example of how it works. i hope that i can disseminate the best practices of the various member states in this area, so that they can be applied. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. we must certainly put pressure on the member states to break down the red tape. we talk a lot about the community bureaucracy, which also has its responsibilities, but sometimes the bureaucracy of the member states also competes with that of the union. i believe, however, that it is in the interest of the citizen to make things easier. when we say we want to think small, we must ensure that the member states also apply this test which the commission has begun to apply. the presentation of the updated small business act in the various european capitals will also provide an opportunity to encourage member states to speed up the issuing of permits for the creation of smes.
member of the commission. − i am very happy to have received this question, because i have good news to report. since 1 january there have, for the first time, actually been more women than men working for the commission. we are very proud of this result, but we know that this is not the end of it. we still need to continue with our policy of also improving the figures for our female colleagues in managerial positions and non-managerial posts (ad) in the commission. we therefore adopted this strategy from 2010 to 2014, until the end of this commission’s mandate. we really would like to achieve a result where women would represent 25% of senior management positions, 30% of middle management and 43% of ad non-management posts. we have already achieved quite a lot over the last 15 years with the tremendous increase of women in managerial positions. we would, of course, like to continue with this same effort. the method we are going to use would be that retirements would be replaced with women, who would represent 30% of recruitment among senior management and 50% among middle managers and ads. so that means that when these managers retired, 30% or 50% of them should be replaced by women. in answer to your question, i checked the situation in other institutions and i must say that you are doing quite well in parliament. the figures are very impressive. it is not quite the same in the case of the council, though to be honest we have slightly different results. but i think that the best method to progress further would be if we continued with our policy of exchanging best practice, and in exchanging experience about the implementation of our policies. i know that our heads of administration, our secretaries-general, are discussing this issue on a regular basis also, and i believe that this exchange of good practice will lead to the appropriate results in all eu institutions.
thank you, commissioner, for the good news. i am pleased that there are more women than men in the commission. but here's the one i'd like to ask you as a follow-up question. how long do you think it would take the european commission to get from 25% and 43% of women in management to at least 50%? how long do you think that would take? you said at the end of your term that this was the only achievement you could have. and yet you did not answer my question exactly, what would be your view as a commissioner on a common strategy for equal opportunities in the european union institutions? the common institutions of the european union, all of them? because it would be a very good example for the member states, for people working in both the public and private sectors.
i share the concern of the other speakers that the situation in albania is worrying and could have a negative impact not only on the future prospects of albania itself but also on the future prospects of the entire balkan region. at the end of last year, the european union expressed its confidence that albania and bosnia and herzegovina are making and can make progress in embarking on important reforms and in granting visa liberalisation to their citizens. however, just a few months later, political unrest began, which claimed lives, suggesting that albania had failed this test of trust. this breakthrough in violence in albania is forcing a rethinking of the prospects for further integration of the region, as the european union's policy is focused on regional stability, and this approach is right. all countries in the balkan region must therefore act in solidarity and have a common interest in maintaining and promoting the highest degree of integration and political stability in the region.
actually, it's a rather complicated question. the information provided shows that there is a problem. and i really want to agree with the colleague who spoke before that this is not just a bulgarian issue. it is a matter of certain values, the values of the european union, the values it professes, and we must all respect everyone who is discussing this and in this chamber. the european union has a charter called the charter of fundamental rights. they are binding on bulgaria and lithuania, which i represent here today, as well as on the other countries of the european union. it's very clear what we can do, what we can't do, what the government can do, what the government can't do. but the main idea is respect for human rights. and so i think that the commission representative, the honourable member, should really look very carefully at this case, because the opposition that we are feeling in this chamber today is, however, exaggerated.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for raising a really timely, timely and very topical question. energy poverty remains a major problem and related challenges prevent people in the poorest regions of the world from improving their quality of life, earning a living and contributing to growth and productivity in general. this is one of the main factors hindering overall social and economic development and preventing these regions from breaking out of poverty. as the rapporteur mentioned, the statistics are grim: about one and a half billion people have no access to electricity, and more than two and a half billion people still use traditional biomass fuels. according to the world health organization, the use of this fuel causes two million premature deaths worldwide each year from respiratory diseases. the energy strategies of the world banks have so far produced no tangible results. in addition, support for fossil fuels remains higher than for renewable or clean energy sources. large investments are still being made in coal-fired plants, which continue to make these poor countries dependent on fossil fuels that are highly polluting. the agreement reached by g20 leaders to reduce support and funding for fossil fuel projects, which should not be funded at all after 2015, is positive and welcomes the momentum. the new strategy also requires a thorough assessment of the supervision and control of the financing provided, so that this support is used for energy projects that can provide long-term benefits and make a real contribution to the development of these regions and to the improvement of the quality of life of the people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the ep expresses its position on the directive on the prevention of falsified medicinal products and their entry into the legal supply chain. it is necessary to take into account the concerns of eu citizens about the quality and safety of medicines they consume. however, experts are also seeing some worrying trends: a sudden increase in the number of counterfeit medicines seized by customs (up to 385% since 2005), the introduction of counterfeit medicines of vital importance, which can have devastating consequences, and the increasing detection of counterfeit medicines in legal drug supply chains. eu citizens need to be very careful when buying medicines online, as the chances of buying counterfeit medicines are up to 50%. it is important that patients are absolutely sure that the medicines they are taking are the medicines they think they are taking. the eu must therefore respond swiftly and constructively to these dangerous trends. this directive is the first step towards ensuring that only quality medicines are distributed in the eu. to this end, i believe it is essential to establish strict controls and accountability at all stages of the production, distribution and sale of medicinal products. this will ensure that eu citizens feel safe when using medicines of genuine quality.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. the report presented by the commission notes that counterfeit medicines are increasingly being seized, and that vital medicines for cancer and heart disease are being counterfeited. the number of counterfeit medicines entering authorised distribution networks is also increasing. this poses a serious threat to the health of eu citizens. the falsification of medicines should be considered a criminal offence, which prevents patients from receiving the treatment they need and thus harms their health, sometimes even causing their death. this directive should therefore aim to protect public health by ensuring high quality control of imports of medicinal products, which is one of the main ways for falsified medicinal products to enter the european market. it is also essential to establish a system of checks and an effective system for detecting counterfeit products. i believe that the online trade in medicines needs to be properly regulated and controlled, as it is one of the main routes for falsified medicines to enter the european market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to address the growing concern of european citizens about the quality and safety of the medicines they consume. there is evidence of a sharp increase in the number of counterfeit medicines seized by customs, with 2.7 million medicines seized at the eu border in 2006 and 2.5 million in 2007, representing a 384% increase compared to 2005. the counterfeiting of life-changing medicines has been seen to transition from the counterfeiting of life-saving medicines, including those for cancer and heart disease, psychiatric disorders and infections. treatment with such counterfeit medicines can have devastating effects. in addition, there is a tendency to penetrate the normal supply chain. in addition to the internet, there is an increasing effort to use authorised distribution networks. out of the 13 member states with data, 7 reported the spread of falsified medicines through the legitimate supply chain. patients should be absolutely sure that the medicines they are taking are the medicines they think they are taking. the use of counterfeit medicines can result in treatment failure and even death. i therefore believe that the protection of public health against falsified medicines should be the main focus of the directive. no additional objectives should interfere with the achievement of this objective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to address the growing concern of european citizens about the quality and safety of the medicines they consume. it is estimated that 1% of medicinal products sold through legitimate channels in the eu are now counterfeit medicines. in some parts of the world, counterfeits account for nearly a third of the market. the worry is that innovative and life-sustaining medicines are being counterfeited. the internet is known to be one of the main routes for falsified medicines to the european market. more than 50 percent of the medicines purchased online from websites that hide their real physical addresses are counterfeit. people who search for cheaper medicines online often fall into the trap of fraudsters who sell counterfeit products with harmful ingredients. many counterfeit medicines are also 'legalized' during repackaging. dishonest repackagers and online scammers have long been unpunished, and more and more people are risking their health and even their lives by buying drugs online from unreliable sites. it is good that sanctions are being introduced for counterfeiters and that measures are being taken to ensure that checks are more stringent. in countries where online sales of medicines are allowed, registered pharmacies will have to obtain a special authorisation, their websites will be marked with a european logo and will be included in a european database. patients should be absolutely sure that the medicine they are taking is the medicine they need to take. the protection of public health against counterfeit medicinal products should be a priority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the problem of counterfeiting medicines is widespread throughout the eu and there is an urgent need for strict measures to prevent counterfeit medicines from entering the market, which can have negative consequences for human health and even life. we need to ensure that only safe and effective medicines reach consumers and that criminal groups are prevented from profiting from the distribution of counterfeit medicines. we must do everything we can to ensure that the eu has a strict system of labelling prescription medicines, including safety labels to identify the manufacturer and the supplier. i believe that there should be stronger sanctions for falsifiers of medicines and that there should be an effective eu-wide control mechanism covering all market participants in the supply of medicines. particular attention and security measures must be given to the online trade of medicinal products by establishing strict authorisation, monitoring and control systems. each state must take all necessary measures to ensure the effective functioning of a system which informs the public of the dangers of counterfeit or substandard medicinal products and even allows the withdrawal of such products from the market.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the number of falsified medicines entering the eu is growing at an alarming rate. this is of particular concern to countries such as lithuania, which is the eu's eastern border. eastern europe is a major route for the multibillion-dollar trade in counterfeit medicines. this is a very serious problem: the commission estimates that 1.5 million packs of falsified medicines are sold in the legal supply chain every year. the increase of almost 20% is even more worrying. counterfeit drugs are not killers. the people who distribute them are dangerous criminals and should be treated as such. the penalties for falsifying medicines should be the same as those for smuggling drugs. this will require better coordination between the various national and international institutions. we need to strengthen the control of counterfeit medicines sold online, as the internet is one of the main ways for falsified medicines to enter the european market. according to the world health organization, one in two medicines sold online is counterfeit. i think one of our priorities should be to try to raise public awareness of the risks involved in buying medicines online.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the review of the european union's financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the forthcoming programming period. the 23 million smes, which account for approximately 99% of all businesses in the eu and create more than 100 million jobs, play a key role in ensuring economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, and are a key source of innovation and vital for maintaining and increasing employment. however, smes have limited access to finance, which is a major obstacle to their creation and growth, especially in the context of the current financial and economic crisis. i therefore support the call in the resolution for a substantial increase in funding from the eu budget for innovative financial instruments to meet the financial needs of smes and in line with the europe 2020 strategy. however, it should be noted that the current eu financial rules on the use of european funds and programmes are unnecessarily complex and the time and costs of complying with these rules are not fully commensurate with the benefits to the final beneficiary. i therefore support the call on the commission to propose simplified and cost-effective rules and guidelines, in particular for programmes to support small-scale financing for smes.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) account for about 99% of all enterprises in the european union and create more than 100 million jobs. they play a key role in ensuring economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. the limited access to finance for smes is a major obstacle to their growth, and the ongoing financial and economic crisis has further limited access to finance. the banking sector is demanding more collateral and higher risk premia from smes. i believe that credit and loan guarantee schemes are crucial to ensure the viability, growth and job creation of this sector. the eib's lending to smes, which was still worth €15 billion in 2008, needs to be given special attention, but studies show that only a small proportion of this money has reached smes, as banks administering loans in the member states have tightened the requirements for issuing loans. i believe that the european commission must take the necessary measures and controls to ensure that the funding it provides reaches smes and ensures the viability and growth of this very important sector.
in writing. −it should be noted that many small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) will continue to be heavily dependent on credit and loans for external financing. it should be noted that the increasingly capital and risk-sensitive banking sector requires more safeguards and higher risk premia, and that both these requirements result in underfunding and lost business and employment opportunities in this very large sector of the economy. in this context, i believe that credit and loan guarantee schemes are of paramount importance in order to exploit the potential of smes to generate growth and create jobs. it is therefore necessary to apply the existing programmes effectively at both national and european union level. it is essential that the guarantee measures under the competition and innovation programme (cip), the risk sharing and financing programme and under the 7th framework programme and the structural funds (jeremie) continue to apply. the proper implementation of these measures is currently hampered by overly complex administrative procedures and the european commission should facilitate the use of structural funds resources allocated to sme financing instruments, in particular to finance renewable funds to ensure guarantee schemes, avoiding the creation of structures that duplicate existing schemes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which account for approximately 99% of all enterprises in the eu and create more than 100 million jobs, play a key role in ensuring economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, and are a key source of innovation and vital for maintaining and increasing employment. the main obstacle to their development and growth is the limited access to finance for smes, a problem exacerbated by the current financial and economic crisis. the banking sector is demanding more safeguards and higher risk premia, both of which result in underfunding and lost business and employment opportunities in this very large sector of the economy. credit and loan guarantee schemes are crucial to unlocking the potential of smes for growth and job creation. i agree that every effort should be made to ensure that existing funding programmes are implemented effectively at both national and eu level by simplifying administrative procedures and facilitating access to structural funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because smes play a key role in ensuring economic growth, social cohesion, job creation and innovation. it is essential to identify effective financial support instruments, with particular attention to interim financial instruments in the future programming period, which would remove barriers to financing and stimulate the creation and growth of new innovative enterprises by providing greater access to european venture capital and bond markets, while removing obstacles to their expansion. i support the proposal to make access to equity capital easier for newly established and innovative companies. we must make every effort to ensure that existing funding programmes are implemented effectively at both national and eu level by simplifying administrative procedures and facilitating access to structural funds. it is essential that member states carry out substantial reforms in their taxation and support systems for smes. the eu budget must also increase funding for innovative financial instruments, together with increased funding for the competition and innovation programme. in addition, administrative barriers for smes must be reduced by simplifying the management of innovative financial instruments, harmonising sme funding programmes and establishing a one-stop shop.
in writing. − colleagues, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of our society and the engine of our economy. both lithuanian and eu smes account for 99% of all enterprises. smes create more than 70% of jobs for lithuanians. smes play a key role in achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which promote innovation, competitiveness, social cohesion and job creation. it is therefore important to create an environment in which this can develop. smes, as well as start-ups and innovative companies, must be given better access to eu financial instruments. credit and loan guarantee schemes are crucial to unlocking the potential of smes for growth and job creation. at present, most investment plans are at risk of being abandoned due to uncertainty and lack of funding. it is therefore important that banks restore liquidity provision and support investment in the real economy. it is also important to support equity markets for start-ups and innovative companies. we must do more to remove administrative obstacles. this will require smart management and cost-effectiveness in conjunction with innovative financial instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this very important resolution on the european pension system. europe is ageing, with a steady increase in the number of people of retirement age due to demographic deterioration and declining birth rates. the importance of social security and pension funds is therefore undoubtedly growing, especially in the light of the current economic crisis. people need to feel secure in their old age, and this can only be achieved through stable, well-functioning pension systems. there are currently almost 100 different pension schemes in the european union. the large differences between eu countries make eu citizens feel unequal. people who have worked hard all their lives, especially in the new eu member states, receive different pensions compared to citizens of the old eu member states. it makes them feel second-class. while the regulation of pension systems is undoubtedly a matter for the member states, it is clear that there is a need for greater coordination at european level in this area. the eu must look after those who need it most: the disabled, the unemployed, the elderly. the european union, in pursuit of the well-being of its citizens and with the help of the member states, must endeavour to level the pension systems as much as possible. this would undoubtedly contribute to improving people's living standards and to the eu's economic growth.
in writing. − the european union faces major challenges, the most important of which is the ageing of the population. due to changing demographic trends, longer life expectancy means that older people will remain healthy and active and able to participate in social life for longer. meanwhile, low birth rates will reduce the number of people of working age, and will therefore pose significant difficulties for member states' social protection systems. the financial crisis has led to increased unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which have exposed the fragility of some pension fund systems. in many member states, budget deficits have increased and pensions have become more difficult to finance. some private pension funds have also been unable to meet their commitments and it is therefore essential that the activities and supervision of such funds be properly regulated in the future. i supported this report and believe that new impetus must be given to the creation of strong, sustainable and secure european pension systems at national and eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in view of the rapid ageing of the european population, it is essential to focus on retirement age, the security of pension funds, and the establishment of common minimum pension standards in order to ensure normal living conditions for all europe's elderly. while the determination of retirement age and the size of pensions is a responsibility of the member states, the european parliament and the commission are proposing measures to help overcome the threats to pension systems. in addition, some coordination of reforms of national pension systems is inevitable in the context of the completion of the internal market and the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it is a pity that the commission's green paper pays little attention to equality between men and women. women are more likely than men to work under atypical contracts or in precarious employment, and therefore earn less on average. in addition, women are more likely to interrupt their careers to care for motherhood, children, elderly or disabled family members, and as a result lose their insurance coverage and ultimately receive lower pensions. it must be acknowledged that there is no perfect pension system. economic and financial capacities vary across member states, and therefore more attention needs to be paid to ways of improving pension systems, such as early entry into employment, 'flexible' retirement age, better reconciliation of work and family life, and common criteria for a minimum pension.
in writing. − the demographic trends, i.e. the inverted population pyramid we can expect in the future, and the longer life expectancy we can all enjoy when older people stay healthy, active and involved in society for longer, require a new strategy for cohesion and compatibility in pensions. there are large differences in pension systems in europe and the new member states and their citizens face additional problems because of the strong desire to create a heterogeneous (multi-tier) pension system to spread the risks. the financial and economic crisis has shown that no pension system is immune to such events, but it is clear that the high budget deficit, the high unemployment rate, the very low potential for tax increases have caused a great deal of damage to current pension funding models, with some member states, such as lithuania, even having to take drastic measures, namely pension cuts, which i consider to be intolerable and unacceptable. member states must make every effort to prevent reduction measures that have a severe impact on the poorest. i have reserved my position on this report because most of the solutions proposed are socially sensitive and the report did not adequately assess all the benefits and risks. this is particularly the case when it comes to raising the retirement age or reducing the influence of member states on pension policy.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the rapporteur acknowledges that there are major gaps in pension systems in europe and that citizens of some of the new member states, such as lithuanians, face additional problems. in my country, life as a pensioner is not easy. in recent years, it has even worsened: last year, the monthly pension of lithuanian pensioners was reduced by 5%. it's time to stop the double standards. in some european countries, such as lithuania, the government claims that the crisis is over and the economy is slowly recovering. and when it comes to practical measures, our leaders say they can't find the resources to bring pensions back to their previous levels. suddenly, they declare that the crisis is not over. financial sustainability is important in reforming our pension systems, as well as ensuring adequate income. it is impossible to achieve real sustainability without adequate pensions. an ageing society and financial pressures mean that our labour market is changing. this needs to be taken into account in the reform of the pension system. the balance of flexibility and security in the labour market supports the adaptability of the economy and thus contributes to sustainable, secure and fair pensions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2010 progress report of croatia. in this document, the european parliament confirmed that croatia had made significant progress in the negotiations on its accession to the european union. i support the provision in the resolution that accession negotiations with croatia can be concluded in the first half of 2011 if the necessary reforms are pursued with determination, in particular by strengthening the public administration and the judiciary, by continuing the fight against corruption, by ensuring the long-term return of refugees and by fully cooperating with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty), by continuing the privatisation process and by adopting plans for the structural restructuring of the shipbuilding yards in difficulty. these are very important conditions, the proper implementation of which, or at least significant progress in the areas listed, will demonstrate croatia's determination and readiness to become an eu member.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution by which the european parliament supports croatia's membership of the european union. croatia's membership is important from a european and regional perspective and would encourage the rest of the western balkan countries to initiate and implement membership-related reforms. significant progress has been made in the accession negotiations with croatia, but substantial reforms remain to be completed in the areas of public administration and the judiciary, corruption, the return of refugees and others. croatia needs to make significant progress in resolving bilateral border disputes with neighbouring countries (serbia, montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina) in order to avoid obstacles to further eu enlargement following croatia's accession.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2010 progress report on croatia, as it is a document by which the european parliament confirms that croatia has made progress in the eu integration negotiations. accession negotiations with croatia can be concluded in a sufficiently short time, provided that the necessary reforms are pursued and implemented with determination. further strengthening of the public administration and the judiciary, the fight against corruption, the long-term return of refugees and full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) etc. are needed. in addition, the croatian government needs to resolve structural economic problems as soon as possible and to focus more on regional cooperation in order to resolve bilateral issues with neighbouring countries. proper implementation, or at least significant progress in these areas, will demonstrate and enhance croatia's readiness and prospects for eu membership. i believe that croatia's accession would also encourage the other balkan countries to move closer to eu membership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because croatia has made significant progress towards meeting the criteria necessary for the conclusion of accession negotiations. in addition, it should be taken into account that the accession of croatia would encourage the other balkan countries to move closer to eu membership. the efforts of the croatian government to combat corruption in all its forms and the ongoing reforms in the public administration and judiciary systems are to be welcomed. however, in order to ensure the proper implementation of the rule of law and to increase citizens' trust in the courts, the number of pending cases and the speed of judicial procedures must be significantly reduced, and the objectivity and impartiality of judicial proceedings in war crimes trials must be ensured. i agree with the proposal that greater attention should be paid to the safety of the planned power stations on the danube. in addition, the croatian government needs to resolve structural economic problems as soon as possible and to focus more on regional cooperation in order to resolve bilateral issues with neighbouring countries. i believe that only after all the necessary reforms and other commitments have been implemented, rather than after a specific deadline, should the negotiations with croatia be concluded.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to two aspects of food prices. first, as my country's very recent experience has shown, it is very easy to manipulate public opinion a little bit to influence the rise in food prices. over the course of the day, the price of sugar in lithuania rose by more than 10% due to the resellers. therefore, food for daily consumption cannot be left to self-regulation. they can be considered as an investment which requires specific knowledge to manage, which is not available to the growers (farmers). although the free movement of goods is one of the fundamental principles of the eu's free market, stronger measures are needed at both national and eu level to limit food speculation and to protect the rights of the weaker side - consumers, small farmers and traders - in their dealings with large processors and trading centres. the second aspect is the close link between food and energy resources and their price relationship. on the one hand, we are promoting the use of biofuels to combat climate change (and have even set mandatory quotas for their use), and on the other hand, the growing of biofuel crops on agricultural land that could also be used for food production is increasing food prices. therefore, while tackling climate change is one of our priorities, we must find a way to do so without affecting food prices (for example, only land that will never be suitable for agricultural production will be used for biofuels).
mr president, considering the enormous importance of developments in egypt to the whole region, and eu relations with that part of the world, it is very important that we show our timely attention and interest and take a pro-active role rather than a reactive one. when a nation – egyptian or any other – comes together to claim its right to democracy, the eu should offer to help its people to transform their dream into reality. taking into consideration that the constitution is suspended, parliament dissolved and presidential elections scheduled later this year, it is very important to ensure that free and fair elections are granted in this country. people will exercise their right to free media and freedom of expression. at the same time, we face a risk that if elections are held without the foundations of deep democracy being laid, then yes, it is possible that extremists will triumph.
the president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? of course, as you mentioned the wider context and the spirit in which the council approaches similar issues, i can tell you that serbia's accession is in progress, as it has submitted its application for accession, and i think we have now reached a new stage, as serbia has responded to the questionnaire presented by the european commission. these replies were submitted on 31 january. of course, all the important issues in the accession process, and such issues, are of course given a different attention by both the european commission and the council.
the president of the council. − small and medium-sized enterprises play a vital role in the european economy. improving the framework conditions for their operation is one of the hungarian presidency's top priorities. in the coming months, the presidency will focus on implementing the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives on innovation and industrial policy, and on completing the internal market, as only 8% of european smes are currently engaged in cross-border activities. the report by former commissioner mario monti states that this completion should remove the barriers which still hinder the functioning of the internal market. this can be achieved by implementing and enforcing all the directives, in particular the services directive this is the issue that this parliament has dealt with in this plenary session accurately and in a timely manner, by offering consumer-friendly solutions in the single euro payments area, in sepa, by making it easier for businesses doing business across borders to comply with tax rules and by promoting the adoption of an sme-friendly eu patent and parliament took a very important decision on this issue here after the debate on tuesday and all of this, which of course requires all that i have spoken about so far, is to inspire smes to invest more in innovation. the hungarian presidency will also deal with the mid-term review of the european small business package, the small business act. this package should be a real magna carta for smes. the presidency also intends to promote a comprehensive approach to the new integrated industrial policy, in which we will seek to remove all barriers to information, financial and technical support that prevent smes from becoming the real backbone of the green economy. we also aim to reduce the administrative burden and risk of government operations through better and smarter regulation and institutional change. we believe that strengthening the innovative capacity of smes is vital and this requires a new approach to innovation that focuses on promoting non-technological innovation. i would like to remind you that the european council also took very important decisions on innovation on 4 february. on the key issue of how smes can access finance, we are committed to supporting access to credit and loans for healthy smes through guarantees, innovative financial instruments and banks offering favourable terms. finally, i would like to add that the hungarian presidency will submit proposals to the council for a mid-term evaluation of the large-budget multiannual union spending programmes in the field of research and development, which will also include important support instruments for smes, such as the risk-sharing financing mechanism, the rsff.
back in 2008, the council approved a €15 billion package from the european investment bank as a key instrument to help small and medium-sized businesses in times of crisis. the published reports show that the funds were used in a limited way and were mainly allocated to supporting large businesses, while small businesses did not receive the necessary funding. how does the hungarian presidency intend to act to ensure that the measures already adopted to support smes are used and implemented in a fair manner?
the president of the council. - thank you very much for your questions, and the questions show that this is a very important issue in the european union, and i think that we have given these issues an unfairly low priority. the hungarian presidency, by drawing conclusions and drawing attention to water problems such as those caused by extreme weather, is preparing the ground for the european commission to put the best possible proposals to the then presidency and the council in this 'water blueprint' for 2012. mr papanikolaou referred to the problems of the aegean islands. i think it's very important for the people there, just as it is in the south of italy or in barcelona -- and we all remember, maybe, having to take the fresh water to barcelona in tankers because there was so little drinking water -- so all of this is just to prove that it's vital that we address these issues. by formulating the council's conclusions, we are inspiring the commission, and i hope that when the debate on the multiannual financial framework, for example, begins, we will have to formulate them in such a way that we can best direct resources towards the common problems of the european union. both ms ticau and mr rubiks were questioned about the danube strategy. if i may, i'd like to answer it in one. we were very pleased to have commissioner hahn present the action plans in hungary at the beginning of february. there are 13 action plans, and the kind of issues that you've raised here, both in terms of the drinking water base and in terms of wastewater treatment, in terms of all kinds of water floods, droughts, there are so-called action plans, and these are led by two countries. i think this is a very good way to strengthen regional cooperation along the danube strategy, and eight eu member states, six non-eu member states are involved in this, and it is very inspiring that we have such a comprehensive strategy to take concrete action on all these issues. there are no new resources for this, but i am convinced that this framework will allow the reorganisation of existing projects and that by strengthening cross-border cooperation, the final result will be much more effective than if each country tried to do it alone. it's impossible when we're connected by a river to take individual action. of course, we may have excellent plans if we do not implement them, so even now, under the hungarian presidency, i am very confident that we can discuss them in the council formations, as we did the initial push in the general affairs council on 31 january, and we are very attentive to the progress of the work. work is progressing well, including at working group level, and towards the end of the hungarian presidency we will be able to adopt the strategy in the general affairs council, which will be supported by the european council, and it will be up to us to ensure that it is implemented to the fullest extent possible, from wastewater treatment to the preservation of our drinking water base.
the president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm glad we can still take the time to ask this question. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is an appropriate and effective instrument for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities in the european union, to which the community and its member states attach great importance. the council would like to draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that it has repeatedly confirmed that in order to meet the needs of persons with disabilities and to ensure their equal participation in society, it is important to involve them in the decision-making and policy-making that affects them. in its 2008 and 2010 resolutions, the council consistently called for the inclusion of persons with disabilities and their organisations in policy-making. it should be recalled that the council also adopted a directive prohibiting discrimination on grounds of disability in the field of employment and occupation. that directive also provides for membership of and participation in workers' and employers' organisations, a specific measure taken by the council to guarantee that persons with disabilities can effectively participate in decision-making. the commission also has a new disability strategy. we are very pleased that this autumn has been born and focuses primarily on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the hungarian presidency intends to submit draft conclusions to the council on this strategy with a view to adopting it at the end of the hungarian presidency in june. as regards the establishment of a special committee on disability, no proposal to this effect has yet been received by the council for consideration. in this context, we would like to remind you that the council can only act in its legislative capacity on the basis of a proposal submitted by the commission, but of course we always keep an eye on parliament, but that is the way legislation is done in the union.
in a meeting of the european disability forum in the european parliament in january this year, commission vice-president reding said that some eu member states were opposed to the council directive on equal treatment for all, regardless of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the anti-discrimination directive is therefore one of the most important issues in the field of human rights, especially in the area of the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. does hungary, as the current presidency of the council of the european union, intend to take any concrete action on the adoption and revision of this directive and what concrete measures will it take to move this directive from the deadlock?
mr president, i welcome the fact that we have finally adopted the resolution on this very important topic. i have been a close observer of political developments and the situation as regards the rule of law in russia for many years now. most recently, i had a chance to visit russia with an official delegation of the human rights subcommittee in september last year. during the visit i had a first-hand opportunity to observe how the rule of law is upheld in russia when attending the trial of the former yukos boss, mikhail khodorkovsky, and his business associate, platon lebedev. the trial of khodorkovsky and lebedev is only the most conspicuous of many examples of the selective application of the rule of law in russia, which means that there is no genuine rule of law. if russia wants to be a strategic partner of the eu it must follow a path of comprehensive modernisation. any modernisation plan will be a failure if the rule of law is not vigorously developed in russia.
in writing. − on 23 april 2007, the council authorised the european commission to open negotiations with the republic of korea for an eu-korea free trade agreement. the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the mfn duty rate if, following the liberalisation of trade, imports are introduced on such a large scale and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to an industry of the european union producing a like or directly competitive product. in order for the branch of the measure in question to be effective, the safeguard clause must be incorporated into european union law. in addition, the procedural aspects of the application of safeguard measures and the rights of interested parties should be described. this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council constitutes a legal instrument implementing the safeguard clause of the eu-korea free trade agreement. i would stress that the legislative function of this regulation must be limited to the implementation aspects, avoiding unilateral changes to essential elements which are already included in the agreement and avoiding adoption of measures which would be contrary to the spirit of the agreements with south korea. to give some examples, safeguard measures, their period of application or the period during which this safeguard clause can be invoked should not be changed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. in particular, in order to achieve more effective eu-korea cooperation, it is important to remove the existing trade barriers that have isolated the korean market until now. the entry into force of this agreement will create favourable conditions for economic growth and job creation. the eu will provide a favourable business environment for growing, competitive eu companies to enter south korea, which offers many new opportunities for eu goods and services, increasing the volume of trade between companies and reducing export costs. in view of the expected future expansion of trade between the eu and south korea, there will be significant savings in the revenue from customs duties, especially in the chemical, industrial and pharmaceutical sectors. in addition, fair competition will be ensured in the automotive, home electronics and textile sectors, where korea has a contingent advantage over the eu. the liberalisation of export tariffs will also bring significant benefits to the agricultural and service sectors. the agreement's strong focus on sustainable development is to be welcomed.
in writing. − i want to congratulate the two rapporteurs – mr sturdy and mr zalba bidegain – for guiding us through the complicated adoption procedure for the free trade agreement itself, as well as the important safeguard clause. the eu-south korea fta is the most comprehensive and ambitious agreement of its type that the eu has concluded so far. it covers many areas beneficial to eu producers and consumers, such as the elimination of tariffs on eu exports of industrial and agricultural goods, improved market access for eu services suppliers, the removal of non-tariff barriers in electronics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, enhanced access to government procurement, protection of intellectual property rights, improved market access for eu car manufacturers and, very importantly and thanks to the safeguard clause, the protection of european car manufacturers against any imbalances that may occur in the sector in the future. i hope this agreement will be a model for many other ftas that are in prospect – with canada, singapore and mercosur, for example. at the same time, i congratulate parliament on the use of its new powers, this being the first fta to which we are giving our consent under the terms of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region. the danube region, which covers 115 million inhabitants and 14 european countries, both within and outside the european union, is an area where closer interaction between the various eu policies (cohesion, transport, economy, energy, environment, culture, education, agriculture, fisheries, development and neighbourhood) can be promoted. it is important that the eu danube strategy could make a significant contribution to improving governance at all levels and to better involving partners and civil society in the danube region, and that its implementation would ensure prosperity, sustainable development, job creation and security in the region. i support the call in the resolution for the member states and regions to use the structural funds foreseen for the period 2007-2013 to ensure the greatest possible support for the implementation of this strategy, in particular by promoting the creation of new jobs and economic growth in the areas most affected by the economic crisis. the danube region is europe's gateway to the western balkans, and i believe that the european danube strategy will not only help to improve neighbourly relations in central and south-eastern europe, but will also provide an important additional benefit in the context of the eu's eastern european policy. this will be a great opportunity for the union as a whole to strengthen its political and economic cooperation with the balkan region and to contribute to the development and strengthening of european integration in this region.
in writing. − i welcome the danube region strategy adopted by the european commission and support its action plan, which focuses on four areas (connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, ensuring prosperity and strengthening the danube region) and takes into account the need to improve mobility, energy security, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the danube region. i also welcome the fact that this strategy has been developed after extensive consultation with stakeholders, including national, regional and local authorities, and representatives of academia, business and non-governmental organisations, as this is an important factor in ensuring its success. it is necessary to establish a civil society forum in the region, bringing together public and private actors and enabling them to participate in the development of macro-regional strategies. it is necessary to foster the danube cultural environment by promoting cultural dialogue, supporting university exchange programmes and youth projects based on international cooperation, strengthening sustainable tourism and preserving the historical and architectural heritage. cooperation in the field of cultural projects plays a vital role in supporting intercultural dialogue and mutual understanding between the countries of the danube region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the energy strategy should address how ensuring access to energy services can help people to escape poverty while encouraging the transition to energy-efficient development. the world bank should strive to follow the principle of private sector development in order to maximise the benefits for the poor in the fight against climate change. a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of energy supply options needs to take account of environmental and social factors at national and regional levels. it is worth noting that although the world bank has recently increased its lending to finance renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives, its overall energy portfolio continues to be dominated by fossil fuel loans. the investment in fossil fuels is made with the participation of financial intermediaries and the bank does not provide this information in its annual settlement of the energy sector. the bank's continued substantial investment in coal-fired power plants is also a concern. so developing countries are going to be tied to coal-based energy for decades to come.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the world bank's energy strategy for developing countries. energy needs in developing countries are increasing, which requires consideration of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. energy supply services must be reliable, affordable and equitably distributed across society in order to effectively combat poverty and reduce the rural-urban divide. the world bank needs to diversify its energy portfolio and increase its lending to finance renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives in response to the needs of developing countries. i agree with the proposal that funding should primarily promote the combination of energy efficiency and renewable energy. priority should be given to small decentralised energy projects and to ensuring access to energy resources for the population of developing countries. it is worth noting that the world bank needs to pay more attention to the threat of biofuels to the food supply. in addition, the monitoring and control of financial intermediaries must be strengthened.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the europe 2020 strategy. the european parliament is convinced that the eu 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and strengthen its capacity to create jobs and to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the five eu core objectives of promoting employment, improving conditions for innovation, research and technological development, tackling climate change and energy, improving education and promoting social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty. i believe that the actions of the europe 2020 strategy are crucial for the future prospects of all european citizens, as they ensure sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth and social progress, but i agree with the concerns expressed in the resolution that the weak governance structure of the europe 2020 strategy will not meet expectations. it is important to note that the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy requires closing the gap between the publicly announced objectives of the strategy, the resources available and the methods used, implementing reforms and ensuring high and rapid public and private sector investment in a wide range of projects. the european commission and the council have a major role to play in this. at the same time, member states should be encouraged to give the fight against unemployment the highest priority in their national reform programmes. only by joining forces between the eu and the member states can we hope to achieve the success of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the member states of the european union should give the fight against unemployment and the prevention of long-term exclusion from the labour market the highest priority in their national programmes and plans. this should be combined with measures to ensure more jobs, better jobs and high-quality and high-quality employment in the medium to long term. i would like to emphasise that member states should pay more attention to combating child poverty by using appropriate measures to ensure that children are not constrained in their personal development and are equal and full members of society at the beginning of their working careers. i welcome the example initiatives that help to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, such as the industrial policy for the age of globalisation, the new skills and jobs agenda, the european plan to combat poverty and social exclusion and others. i support the proposals for a european plan to combat poverty and social exclusion, but would call for more concrete action to ensure social inclusion. it is also essential to develop a concrete programme to promote decent work, guarantee workers' rights across europe and improve working conditions, combat inequality and discrimination and combat working poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is urgent to step up efforts at all levels to ensure that the guidelines for the european union's employment policies are properly implemented. because only if these guidelines are properly implemented will it be possible to increase participation in the labour market, develop a skilled workforce and improve the quality and efficiency of education and training systems. the employment guidelines also aim to ensure that, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the governance of the economy, employment objectives are met and sustainable economic growth and social progress are achieved. i think it is very important that member states make every effort to fulfil the commitments they have made to increase employment, improve skills, create jobs, reduce poverty and increase social inclusion. the european commission and the member states must be prepared to ensure that these guidelines are implemented in conjunction with the social partners, regional and local authorities, who must be involved in the preparation and implementation of the national reform programmes. the economic and financial crisis has led to a continuing tensions on the european labour market, which means that the fight against unemployment must be one of the main policy priorities of both the european union and the member states.
in writing. − the european commission, after assessing the preliminary national reform programmes, has put forward a proposal recommending that the employment policy guidelines adopted by the council last year be left unchanged until 2014 in order to focus on their implementation. this is understandable, since the employment guidelines are an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy and must be fully transposed into the national programmes of the member states, which should therefore focus as much as possible on their implementation. while these guidelines will not be reviewed annually as usual, the european union's employment strategy must remain focused on full employment, which will increase economic growth and competitiveness, and strengthen social cohesion. the indicative national reform programmes of the member states show that member states should continue their efforts in these priority areas with a view to increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce adapted to labour market needs, promoting lifelong learning, improving education and training systems at all levels and encouraging higher education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. i would therefore urge the member states to ensure the most effective implementation of employment and social policy in the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of these national programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on rising food prices. food prices in the 2010 and 2011 transactions increased for seven consecutive months and reached their highest level since 1990. rising commodity prices have become a destabilising factor in the global economy, contributing to riots and unrest in some developing countries and, more recently, in algeria, tunisia and egypt. poverty and hunger also exist in the european union, with 79 million people still living below the poverty line. i therefore support the call in the resolution for urgent action to ensure food security for eu citizens and the world. it is also essential that consumers have access to affordable food and that, at the same time, a fair standard of living for farmers should be ensured. the eu should therefore support rural development, increase investment in food security and pay particular attention to the urgent needs of the fight against hunger, small farms and social protection programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is necessary to take concrete action to ensure food security for citizens of the european union and the world. in the 2010 and 2011 transactions, food prices rose for seven consecutive months, reaching their highest level since the fao began counting them in 1990. rising commodity prices have become a destabilizing factor in the global economy in some developing countries. moreover, recent riots and unrest in algeria, tunisia and egypt have had a significant impact. consumers must have access to affordable food while ensuring a fair standard of living for farmers. the european union therefore has a responsibility to ensure food security for its citizens. it should be noted that rising production costs and price volatility are reducing farm incomes in the eu and negatively affecting farmers' ability to maintain production. it is also necessary to take account of the costs that european farmers incur in meeting the highest food safety, environmental, animal welfare and labour standards in the world. farmers should be compensated for these additional costs and for the goods they provide to society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the rise in food prices in europe. the right to food is a fundamental human right, and we must therefore make every effort to ensure that food prices are regulated and accessible to everyone, with particular attention to food availability in developing countries. i agree with the proposal that the commission should adopt a new trade and development strategy which would give developing countries more autonomy in dealing with the problem of rising food prices. attention should be paid to the need to create favourable conditions for farmers, especially small farmers, for support and business. export tax rates must be reduced, and industrial farming activities that may adversely affect food production capacity must be restricted. we must do our utmost to increase support for development in the agricultural sector, by supporting rural development, by introducing innovative production methods and by providing effective humanitarian aid. only by implementing preventive measures such as concentration in the food supply chain, speculation in agricultural commodities and reducing production costs will the rise in food prices be contained. given the dependence on food and energy security, there is a need to develop alternative sources of energy and to minimise food waste at eu and national level. the effective functioning of the measures to combat rising food prices provided for in the resolution requires the establishment of an independent global regulatory agency and the proper and efficient functioning of food stockpiling systems at regional and local level.
on behalf of the s&d group today, as we mark the 100th anniversary of international women's day, we in parliament are focusing on gender equality and the fight against poverty for women. women fought for the right to work a century ago, and now they must fight for equal pay for equal work. progress on gender equality is slow, although progress is being made. discrimination in the labour market persists, there is a deep gender segregation in the labour market, the wage gap persists, there is still a lack of women in decision-making positions and in politics, and there is insufficient support for motherhood and single mothers. in the parliament's report on equality between women and men, we identified the need to consolidate the principle of gender equality in the family and society, to stop violence against women and trafficking in women, to ensure maternity leave and access to day-care and childcare facilities, to reduce poverty among women and to assess the contribution of women to family, social and economic development. to achieve these goals, the european parliament, the european commission and the member states must work together, and on this historic day, i would like to congratulate all women and wish them well in their fight for equal rights and opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of not revoking the immunity of elmar brok, as a well-known political figure has been charged with a criminal offence, whereas, given the amount and circumstances, a simple citizen would only be subject to an administrative case in this case. the prosecutor also intended not only to unjustifiably withhold information about the allegations against mr brock for false and highly offensive reasons, but also to ensure that the case was widely reported in the media in order to cause the maximum possible damage to the member of parliament concerned. the fumus persecutionis presumption applies in this case, since the case appears to have been brought solely with the aim of damaging the reputation of the member concerned, and it would therefore be entirely inappropriate to waive the member's immunity in that regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the product safety directive, which sets general product safety requirements, was adopted 10 years ago and has not been revised, despite many changes at global and eu level over the past decade. there are still a number of issues to be improved in this area to make eu consumers feel safe. products intended for children require particularly stringent regulation. every year, accidents occur in the eu, resulting in the death of children, when unsafe products are exposed to them. one of the main focuses of the revision of the product safety directive must be to strengthen market surveillance by ensuring product and producer traceability and to establish and apply the principles of standardisation which will allow us to better protect our consumers and provide them with clearer and more accurate information about the products they buy.
in writing. − if you have it is now necessary to review directive 2001/95/ec on general product safety (gps) which establishes common safety requirements at community level for consumer products and to bring it into line, by means of integration, with the new regulatory framework (nms) adopted in 2008, in particular with the provisions of the market surveillance regulation. the product safety and market surveillance legislation is structured in three levels (gsp, bat and sectoral harmonisation directives), which creates uncertainty and uncertainty in the internal market. the level of market surveillance varies widely between member states, and some member states do not allocate the necessary resources to ensure effective market surveillance and have different perceptions of products posing a serious risk, which may create barriers to the free movement of goods, distort competition and endanger consumer safety in the internal market. the current framework of market surveillance legislation is not sufficiently consistent and should be reviewed and further harmonised. i abstained from voting in favour of this document because i believe that thinking only of consumer safety would reduce the free movement of products and the wider choice of products. the measures taken must be adequate, but at the same time we must take into account both consumer safety and the free movement and choice of products. it is also clear that market surveillance is a challenge for many member states, as they are unable to allocate the necessary resources to ensure effective market surveillance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. according to data published by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) at the end of april 2010, 2 900 people died in europe from influenza a (h1n1) in 2009. this is well below the official estimate of mortality from seasonal influenza, which the commission estimates to be around 40 000 deaths per year on average and 220 000 in a particularly severe season. this figure is also below the most optimistic forecasts of the health services of the eu member states. the virus was declared a high-risk threat and some member states took very costly and disproportionate measures that did not reflect the real threat level of the virus (e.g. costs in the uk were as high as €1,300 million and in france 990 million, while costs related to seasonal influenza were up to €90 million). i agree that the world health organisation should revise the current definition of pandemic, not just to limit the spread of the virus, but to include the possible severity of the disease and a more appropriate response, in order to respond adequately and protect eu citizens from real risks. i believe that this requires better cooperation between the member states and the responsible institutions and organisations, and a more transparent allocation of responsibilities between the main actors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the world health organisation should urgently revise the definition and include a definition of severity of disease in the definition of pandemic stages to ensure a more appropriate response. the response to pandemics requires better cooperation, a review of prevention plans, clarification and, where appropriate, a review of the roles and responsibilities of key actors, enhanced cooperation between eu member states to ensure consistent risk management in the response to pandemics in line with the international health regulations, and stronger coordination between member states and the european centre for disease prevention and control. a procedure should be introduced to allow member states to participate in group purchases on a voluntary basis. manufacturers are required to take full responsibility for the indications of their medicinal products and member states should apply this rule fully when procuring vaccines from the public. the plans for the prevention of future influenza pandemics in the eu and the member states need to be revised to be more effective, consistent and reasonably autonomous and to be adapted to the real risks in a flexible manner in each case within the shortest possible time, based on the latest available scientific data. i agree that for a vaccination strategy to work, three conditions must be met: the vaccine is effective, the benefits outweigh the risks, and it is given to people at risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is particularly difficult to predict the severity and course of a pandemic and because a large number of disproportionate decisions are often taken in the event of a pandemic, which requires a strong focus on cooperation, independence and transparency. in particular, the plans for the future prevention of influenza pandemics, both in the eu and in each country, need to be reviewed in a consistent manner in order to be flexible and adapted effectively to the threat of influenza pandemics on a case-by-case basis. in addition, cooperation and coordination of action at international and regional levels should be encouraged in order to ensure appropriate risk management and an operational response to the pandemic threat. i believe that more financial resources should be allocated to research and development, and to that end, we need to increase investment in predicting and assessing the impact of the influenza virus. it is essential to ensure that the procurement and allocation process for medicines and vaccines is transparent, thereby reducing corruption in this area. the influence of pharmaceutical companies must be limited not only in the prescribing but also in the testing of vaccines and antiviral drugs. scientific experts should publicly declare that they have no connection with the financial or other interests of the pharmaceutical industry.
in writing. − i have agreed to this proposal as harald wögerbauer's candidacy fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) tfeu and a favourable opinion is given on the council's proposal to appoint harald wögerbauer as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) are to ensure the sustainable and resilient use of living aquatic resources and to ensure a high level of protection of the ecosystem. the common fisheries policy for the mediterranean (cfp) was established by international agreement in 1949 and the european community is a member of the commission. the cfp has an important role to play in achieving the key objectives of fisheries policy, which are to promote the development, conservation and good management of living marine resources, to develop and present recommendations for conservation measures and to promote joint training projects. since the recommendations of the jha are binding on the contracting parties, of which the community is one, the provisions of the agreement should be transposed into community law, ensuring the consistency and compliance of this policy.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the main tasks of the jrc (joint fisheries commission for the mediterranean) are to promote the development, conservation and sound management of living marine resources; to develop and make recommendations for conservation measures; and to promote joint training projects. the proposal for a regulation merely transposes into a single community act the recommendations adopted by the jha that are already applicable in the member states of the jha. this would greatly simplify the procedure, given that until now the european community has adopted regulations for the purpose of approximation of legislation only on an annual basis. the proposal sets out a number of rational solutions: the proposal for a regulation details the fishing gear (minimum mesh size for the mediterranean (article 15) and the black sea (article 16)) and prohibits fishing with trawls and seines at a depth of more than 1 000 metres (article 17), regulates aspects of vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because fishing, especially in the mediterranean, is more than an economic activity, it is part of a culture and a way of life. all regions are created and extended in line with the fisheries. this requires special attention to be paid to fisheries in the region, since the mediterranean fisheries are more specific than elsewhere and require specific measures. in my view, it is appropriate to incorporate the recommendations adopted by the mediterranean common fisheries commission into a single community act, given that those recommendations are already applicable. it is also appropriate to lay down certain technical measures to establish fishing restrictions in the gulf of lion by strengthening the requirements for fishing gear, the process of issuing fishing authorisations. i am in favour of stricter regulation of vessels authorised to fish for large golden mackerel and a ban on fishing with trawls and seines at depths of more than 100 metres. it is also appropriate to regulate control measures more strictly, by providing for the possibility of inspecting third-country vessels both during unloading and loading and in cases where member states do not allow access to their ports. the proposal to cooperate actively and exchange information with the jrc is welcome.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has exposed serious weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the global financial system. it is now clear that new measures are needed to curb speculation and restore the financial sector to a leading role, ensuring fair and proportionate burden-sharing between the main financial players. it is essential to start talking about the taxation of the financial sector, which, unlike other sectors, is largely exempt from taxation and all the main financial activities are subject to the vat exemption system. i support the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which could help to address the growing and highly harmful trading patterns in financial markets, improve the efficiency of the market itself, reduce price volatility and provide incentives for the financial sector to undertake value-added investments.
in writing. − i supported this report because one of the main advantages of innovative financing instruments is their dual purpose, as they can contribute to important policy objectives such as financial stability and transparency and offer significant revenue potential, but should also take into account the impact of these instruments on the negative spill-over effects of the financial sector. i support the provision and the call for innovative financing instruments to generate more income from the sector and to contribute to reducing the tax burden on working people. this would provide opportunities to improve market efficiency, increase transparency and reduce speculation, offset excessive price volatility and create incentives for the financial sector to undertake long-term investments with added value to the real economy, as well as help finance universal public goods and reduce the government budget deficit. i also supported the idea of issuing common european project bonds to finance large european infrastructure needs and structural projects in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and other strategies such as the new strategy for the development of energy infrastructure, as well as other large-scale projects. in this way, eu project bonds would secure the necessary investments, attract the necessary support and become an important tool to increase the level of state support. these projects must also contribute to the environmentally sustainable transformation of our economy, preparing the ground for a zero-carbon economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on innovative finance at global and european level. europe, the world's largest financial market, is gradually recovering from a crisis whose effects will be felt for years to come. in this context, it is necessary to establish innovative financing instruments that ensure financial stability and transparency. at present, most financial services are not subject to vat, which means that the financial sector loses a lot of revenue, increasing the tax burden on working people. i believe that the financial transaction tax is an effective financing instrument that would contribute to reducing speculation and the public budget deficit. after having duly assessed its potential negative impact on the eu's global competitiveness, we must make every effort to ensure that it is applied at global level. in addition, in order to increase the gdp of each country, it is appropriate to impose a tax on bank assets that is proportionate to the systemic importance of the credit institution and the level of risk associated with its activities. i support the proposal for the issuing of joint european project bonds, which, as a common debt management tool, will help to attract more investment in european infrastructure projects. in addition, in order to maximise the benefits of the application of the carbon tax, it is necessary to set a threshold of minimum requirements for all member states, ensuring that the lowest income consumers are not the most burdened by the tax.
in writing. − in the european union, there are very large disparities in healthcare provision between countries and regions. the economic and financial crisis has led to austerity measures in some member states, which have led to a reduction in funding for public health, disease prevention and long-term care services in some member states. not all eu citizens have access to quality healthcare. this is particularly true in poorer regions of the eu where patients lack access to high quality healthcare and treatment services. there are also wide disparities in the treatment and reimbursement of individual complex diseases such as alzheimer's disease, which prevent patients in some member states from receiving the treatment and reimbursable medicines they need in their own country. i believe that the european commission must take measures to reduce the disparities and inequalities in the access of people in the eu to high quality healthcare and medicines and to establish mechanisms to monitor healthcare disparities. the commission should also present as soon as possible an initiative to encourage and support the development of integrated national or regional strategies by member states to reduce health disparities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the problem of health inequalities needs to be tackled as quickly as possible. these differences are manifested early in life and are not only retained into old age but are also passed on from generation to generation. difficulties experienced early in life in accessing education, employment and healthcare, as well as gender and cultural differences, can have a profound impact on people throughout their lives. poverty and social exclusion also have a significant impact on health. in many cases, the causes of these unfair health disparities can be prevented. addressing health inequalities requires concrete action, especially for the most vulnerable. it is essential that reducing health inequalities is considered a top priority by ensuring effective health impact assessments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, despite the progress made in healthcare, the gap in health achievement between those at the top and those at the bottom of the social ladder is still wide and in some places still widening. difficulties experienced early in life in accessing education, employment and healthcare, as well as gender and cultural differences, can affect people throughout their lives. the combination of poverty and other vulnerabilities such as childhood, old age or disability increases the risk to health and vice versa. poor health can mean poverty and/or social exclusion. the link between social factors and health disparities is increasingly recognised. this means that there is a growing recognition that social problems are linked to health problems and that an integrated response is therefore needed. the social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis have now become apparent. at the beginning of the crisis, almost 5 million people were unemployed. many families have lost their income, many are facing poverty, are deep in debt, and some have lost their homes. the crisis hit the short-term workers first. migrant workers and young or older workers, whose jobs are often precarious, have been particularly affected, but those who had relatively safe working conditions have also lost their jobs. addressing health inequalities requires an innovative approach to policy measures, especially for people from lower socioeconomic groups.
in writing. − developing countries face difficulties in setting up tax systems (establishment, collection and administration of taxes). one of the key challenges set out in the millennium development goals is to combat tax havens, which weaken the institutions and political systems of developing countries. tax havens and tax havens facilitate the illicit flow of $1 trillion a year in capital, about ten times the amount allocated to developing countries to reduce poverty and promote economic development. i support the proposals in the report that financial assistance should be provided by donors to support developing countries' efforts to improve tax management and ensure the transparent and responsible use of aid.
in writing. − i voted for this document because it highlights positive aspects such as a clear understanding of taxation, which is important in providing the basis for an accountable and responsible democratic system. another aspect is that the eu is committed to upholding the principle of developmental autonomy and recognises that developing countries have a primary responsibility to improve income systems in the light of economic and policy circumstances and opportunities. the commission is seeking to use eu instruments to provide increased support to developing countries in developing tax systems and implementing the principles of good tax governance, i.e. to focus more on ensuring that the principles of good tax governance are effectively integrated into the programming, implementation and monitoring of national and regional strategic plan documents. the commission supports the country-by-country financial reporting regime for multinational enterprises as a means of detecting tax fraud and tax evasion on an international scale. it is also important to emphasise that the csr communication will discuss how to develop a system for the mandatory publication of management-related information in the annual reporting documents. the commission aims to accelerate international dialogue and cooperation in the field of taxation, in particular by strengthening the participation of developing countries in important international fora. stresses the need to conclude and implement agreements on the exchange of information in tax matters, to use the multilateral mechanism and to refer to the example of the eu savings tax directive based on automatic exchange of information;
in writing. − given that developing countries currently lose a lot of revenue from trade taxes, it is therefore essential to ensure effective cooperation in both tax and development areas. it is essential for each member state to establish an effective and efficient tax system and the policies implementing it, as this is the basis for attracting public finance and investment. developing countries should therefore be left with a margin of discretion in this area. cooperation shall be based on mutual assistance without creating additional obstacles or burdens for either party. i agree with the proposal that we should help developing countries to achieve both quantitative and qualitative improvements in income. support to developing countries should be targeted and effective and should be limited to its essential need, rather than being left to the parties to decide on its necessity. i do not think it is appropriate to impose an additional burden on the eu to compensate developing countries for the reduced revenue from customs duties. in my view, a financial transaction tax should be introduced to limit speculation and make the market work more efficiently. in addition, every effort should be made to extend the application of this tax not only to the eu but also to the world.
in writing. − the european union's agricultural sector creates significant added value for the european economy and plays a strategic role in meeting economic, social and environmental challenges. therefore, external trade policies and agreements with foreign importers must not undermine the eu's ability to maintain a strong and viable sector. the commission must take a clear position in the world trade organisation and carry out specific impact assessments when negotiating with other parties on the import of certain products into the eu market. the principle that the production methods used in third countries for products exported to the eu should ensure the same minimum standards of health, food safety, animal welfare, sustainable development and social standards for eu consumers as those applied to eu producers should be respected. this is the only way to ensure that eu producers can compete on equal terms with third countries and to protect the interests of eu farmers.
in writing. − i voted for this document because as the eu considers the future of its common agricultural policy (cap), it is becoming increasingly important to ensure the coherence of agricultural and foreign trade policies. the cap and the eu's external trade policy must be coordinated to ensure that the european agricultural model is preserved and that eu producers are treated equally on the world market. our priority must be food safety, security and quality at affordable prices for eu citizens. the world is facing increasing demand for food in the face of higher production costs, high volatility in agricultural markets, and declining arable land, water and energy resources. a strong cap is crucial to preserve environmental sustainability and economic development in the eu's rural areas, where land is threatened by abandonment and rural depopulation. the european agricultural sector creates clear added value for the european economy and plays a strategic role in the europe 2020 strategy, which is designed to address the economic, social and environmental challenges facing the eu internationally and as a major global player. the eu's trade policy will play a crucial role in determining whether agriculture continues to make a full and positive contribution to these objectives. trade policy should not hold back the eu's agricultural sector. on the contrary, trade policy and agricultural policy can and must be reconciled.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on eu agriculture and international trade. the eu is one of the world's largest importers of agricultural products, but its share of the global export market is declining due to the growth of its main agricultural trading partners and the low world market prices and high production costs in the eu. as the eu imports the majority of agricultural products from developing countries worldwide, it is necessary to ensure that the interests of eu farmers are properly safeguarded by providing for a mechanism to compensate for the losses suffered as a result. eu farmers need to be protected from unfair competition, which means that products exported from third countries must be subject to the same standards as those applied in the eu agricultural sector. these conditions must be included in bilateral trade agreements. in addition, eu products must be granted full aid for access to third country markets. i believe that the commission's proposal to grant pakistan a three-year tariff quota at zero duty for exports of 100 000 ethanol per year to the eu will prevent direct and immediate aid and a negative impact on the eu renewable energy industry. given that ukraine's cereals production is highly competitive and subject to lower tariffs, the commission must be more cautious in applying concessions in its negotiations with ukraine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. over the last decade, the union's protein crop production and our market have become largely dependent on imports. this situation was the result of previous eu international trade agreements, under which the eu protected its cereal production in exchange for duty-free imports of oilseeds and protein crops into the eu. this has enabled the necessary production to be imported at low cost and has preserved the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, especially the livestock sector. however, within the eu itself, there has been a marked decline in interest from farmers and business in the processing sector. research has been reduced, research on resistant and productive plant varieties has been discontinued, and practical experience in protein crops has been lost across europe. the current situation in volatile price markets and the high price of protein feed may have a negative impact on the eu livestock sector, which is heavily dependent on imports. the commission should consider measures to promote the cultivation and production of protein crops in the eu, as well as support for farmers growing such crops, as a matter of urgency and this support should be reflected in the reform of the common agricultural policy. this would provide an opportunity to revitalise the sector, provide income for farmers and contribute to more sustainable farming in the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the cap reform must include appropriate and credible new instruments and mechanisms to help farmers improve crop rotation systems, thus significantly reducing the current protein deficit and price volatility. the eu's protein deficit is rising steadily, and the eu grows 30% of its protein crops for feed. proteins account for only 3% of all arable land in the eu, which means that the eu has to import 70% of these forage crops. the wider use of protein crops for sowing could have significant agricultural and environmental benefits and mitigate climate change. in terms of climate change, leguminous species can contribute significantly to the reduction of greenhouse gases by absorbing and fixing nitrogen in the soil, thereby helping to reduce nitrogen fertilisers. the use of more protein crops in planting improves soil fertility and structure and nutrient reserves, and subsequently crops grown grow healthier. mixtures of perennial grasses and herbs and mixtures of cereals and protein crops for fodder provide better soil cover and thus help to reduce nutrient leakage to groundwater and rivers, and also provide better conditions for bees and other pollinating insects. the use of extensive planting reduces the need for plant protection and can help to preserve the diversity of species and varieties, both wild and cultivated.
in writing. − protein deficiency is a current and important problem in the eu. given the deep-rooted nature of the problem in the eu and the growing protein shortages, every effort should be made to address this problem as soon as possible and to increase the production of local protein crops. i think this resolution is an important step towards solving the problem. the production of protein crops not only mitigates the effects of climate change, but also has a positive impact on farmers' incomes. it is also an important factor in strengthening the eu livestock sector, with a view to reducing its dependence on protein crops imports and increasing its competitiveness. i believe that the commission must take immediate action to prevent at least a minimum amount of gmos from entering the eu market. we cannot allow the import into the eu of at least minimal quantities of gmo impurities with food and feed protein plants. i support the proposals to support eu research on the selection and supply of protein crops and to use improved decentralised feed production infrastructure under the rural development measures scheme. i believe that financial support measures for farmers in the eu should actively promote crop rotation, which would reduce the current protein deficit and price volatility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i am pleased that the european parliament has paid particular attention to gender equality issues. we must recognise that there is still a lot of work to be done to improve the situation of women in terms of gender equality, in the labour market, in politics. women's rights issues must be integrated into all european union policies and initiatives must not remain on paper, but must be implemented in all member states of the european union. in the european parliament's report on equality between women and men in the european union, we therefore identified the need to close the gender pay gap, to stop violence against women and trafficking in women, to ensure maternity leave and to provide adequate access to day-care and childcare facilities, and to reduce poverty among women. as regards gender equality in business, it is worth noting that only 3% of company directors are women, as they face discrimination and barriers to advancing their careers and reaching leadership. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of quotas for the promotion of gender equality in the workplace. i hope that in the future we will find solutions and instruments that will consolidate gender equality and equal opportunities for women in the family and in society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the financial, economic and social crisis we are currently experiencing has serious implications for unemployment, the living conditions of our people and society in general. women have been particularly affected by this crisis, in terms of their working conditions, their access to employment, their place in society in general and their equality with men in particular. women must be able to hold positions that are commensurate with their qualifications, whether on the boards of large listed companies or in the political sphere. indeed, women do not always have the opportunity to take up leadership positions, and this creates a gap between their education and their status. as 2010 is the european year against poverty, special attention should be paid to women who are more vulnerable. where they are vulnerable because of disability or their migrant status, specific measures should be taken to avoid their vulnerability and to facilitate their social inclusion. equality is also promoted in the fight against violence against women. it should be noted that any physical, psychological or sexual violence, no matter how severe, must be combated and condemned. on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of international women's day, i would like to congratulate all women on this occasion.
in writing. - i supported this report. poverty remains a major problem in the eu and the fight against poverty is one of the five evaluated objectives of the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission. the integrated guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy (promotion of social inclusion and combating poverty) aim to protect people at risk of poverty, in particular women and single-parent families, and older people who are at higher risk of poverty than the rest of the population. social protection and employment policies play a very important role in reducing people's poverty. member states, in conjunction with the commission, should agree on more effective measures to guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable groups in society to adequate education and to provide vocational training and university study opportunities that will allow them to better integrate into the active labour market and prevent the risk of poverty.
in writing. − i voted for this report because we need to overcome the exacerbation of poverty among women in the difficult years. although the economic and financial crisis has had a significant impact on unemployment rates for both sexes, women have been the most affected by the crisis. during the difficult year, wages in female-dominated sectors fell sharply or women lost their jobs altogether. in addition, lower wages mean that older women receive lower pensions and are therefore more likely to be poor. the high prevalence of maternal poverty, especially among single mothers, during the crisis has a direct impact on child poverty, with some 20 million children already living in poverty in europe. without concrete measures to reduce poverty among women, it will not be possible to reduce child poverty. i would like to emphasise that both european and national legislation must take gender into account. the member states of the european union should develop specific programmes for the integration and reintegration of women into the labour market. in addition, all mothers must be guaranteed maternity leave. sadly, motherhood is now totally undervalued, as is the work of caring for young children, the elderly, or the disabled. i hope that in the future member states will take appropriate measures to overcome women's poverty and to recognise the contribution of mothers to the development of the family, society and the economy.
in writing. − i voted for this report because we need to overcome the poverty of women, which has been exacerbated by the financial and economic crisis. almost 17% of european women are classified as poor; in terms of labour market and social protection indicators, women are disproportionately affected by the structural causes of poverty. during the difficult year, wages in female-dominated sectors fell sharply or women lost their jobs altogether. in addition, lower wages mean that older women receive lower pensions and are therefore more likely to be poor. the high prevalence of maternal poverty, especially among single mothers, during the crisis has a direct impact on child poverty, with some 20 million children already living in poverty in europe. as women's contribution to family, social and economic development is consistently undervalued and underrewarded, measures to reduce women's poverty are necessary and urgent.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am grateful for this discussion in parliament. i believe the commission will benefit a great deal in the run-up to the delivery of the european framework, and it means a lot to me personally when we develop the future cohesion policy, especially the future of the european social fund. i understand from this discussion that we have to go forward with simplification. we have to go forward with making more room in the esf for social inclusion. we have to develop a territorial approach that suits the specific social conditions of the regions where most roma live, and we have to do more to create employment for unskilled or low-skilled people. i want, however, to clarify two things very briefly. firstly, poverty plays a big role, but we should not believe that the situation of the roma as a category is identical with that of poor people in general, because poverty and unemployment are much higher among the roma than in mainstream society. that is why i believe europe 2020 is a good framework and will help in developing the appropriate strategies, policies and financial support. finally, we come to the question of why the commission is working on a european framework as opposed to a european strategy as such. i have no time to elaborate on this, but it is simply because of the diversity of the reality on the ground. there is a common european problem but how it appears in various member states, and how it should be translated into national strategies, differs from romania to france or from slovakia to portugal, and we have to be aware of that.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, just to add to what my colleague has said, the discussion today was very valuable, as was most of what was written in your presentation. it will be taken into consideration in the elaboration of the work that the commission is doing at the moment. the eu framework for national roma strategies will first be presented to the european platform for roma inclusion because we need – as many parliamentarians have said – to include the roma population in our work and for them to take on their responsibility. it is also very important – and here i look to the presidency – that there will be a follow-up of the work we do in the coming months so that we can see how all the projects will be implemented in practice. i agree with the members who said that the regional funds are unfortunately not utilised as they could be and i also agree with those who say that the local authorities are sometimes the ones who can best find a solution. we have to help them to move forward. the free movement directive has been questioned by some members. the analysis of the transposition by all member states has been finalised. in 2010 we visited 21 member states and six visits are planned. a significant number of member states have amended their rules or are in the process of amending their rules, so the free movement directive will be much better applied than it was before.
the president of the council. - madam president, i'm sure you are. indeed, the timing of today's debate could not have been better. so the timing is perfect, because the commission's communication will be published in april, and then we want to incorporate this communication into the council's work. this means that, after discussions in the relevant council configurations, we will also seek the support of the european council for the adoption of the conclusions. this means that the european union must also commit itself to the roma issue at the highest level of heads of state and government. i would like to add a few thoughts to that debate, which raises the question of whether we are talking about an ethnic issue or some sort of social or economic challenge. i don't want to decide this debate, and i can't decide it. i think it's both, and it's important to keep both approaches. so it is a social and economic issue, as the commissioner has said, that extreme poverty is still a common problem in many places in the member states of the european union. at the same time, there is a kind of ethnic discrimination within the extreme poverty, and therefore we have to pay special attention to the roma when we provide opportunities. but if we don't provide opportunities, then we're not going to be able to claim access to the little, the nothing on a human rights basis, because there's nothing to access. but if we give, if we create opportunities, we have to make sure that these opportunities are available to the roma, not excluded from them. i think we all need a new approach. it would be good to explore the possibility of this problem, if we could take the roma issue from the problem side to the opportunity side. because think about what a workforce base, what a workforce treasure, and what a possibility there is to provide internal workforce replenishment in this group of people, in this crowd. the best investment, it's been said many times, is to improve education. it's really an investment in the future, that's education. and this is a key point when we talk about how people become inactive, not just because they don't have jobs or they don't have opportunities to learn, but because they're inactive in the deepest sense of the word, because they've lost hope. they think they have no chance, and therefore they don't want anything from life. maybe they're asking for government aid. it is very important that these people can go from being the subject of the measures to being the subject of the measures, that they themselves can participate as partners. there was little talk of good practice today. i think it's important to record good practices, and i think it's equally important to record bad practices, because there's often more to learn from the mistakes of bad practices than from good practices. and i think that looking at the resources, looking at the use of resources, this is european union funds, shows both good practices and bad practices. and finally, perhaps most importantly, we have to convince the majority. we will convince the majority, the non-roma majority in europe, that integration is not just a humanitarian imperative, but that it is also in their fundamental interest, because europe belongs to all of us and the majority can only feel good if the minority feels good. thank you for this debate, and i hope we can continue to count on your support.
in writing. the events of the past year regarding the displacement of roma from one country to another and the discrimination and exclusion of this ethnic group from society have prompted the european union to take concrete action. one such action is the european union roma inclusion strategy, initiated by the european parliament. the inclusion of this ethnic group is not only a human rights obligation but also an economic necessity, not only a moral obligation but also an important financial interest of all member states. furthermore, given the extent of the segregation, the overall inclusion of roma is a fundamental human rights issue. i would like to emphasise that the adoption by the european parliament of a europe-wide strategy on roma inclusion shows that the european union is not leaving the member states alone to solve the problems of roma integration. as recent events have shown, these problems can no longer be solved at national level alone and therefore require close cooperation between the european union and the member states. it is also essential that the european commission and the member states mobilise existing eu strategies and instruments and must coordinate and find a common dialogue to ensure the social and economic inclusion of roma. only when a common european approach to roma integration issues is found will the strategy be actively implemented. in addition, the roma community should be involved as much as possible in the process of developing eu roma policy.
in writing. the roma community in the european union, despite being the largest ethnic minority group, still suffers from discrimination and segregation. i agree with many of my colleagues who have said that it is very important to develop a roma inclusion strategy at european level. in each country, we have excellent examples of how to reduce roma segregation in a variety of areas: education, culture, employment, healthcare or even roma participation in political and civic life. however, the visibility of such initiatives is insufficient. the european union would therefore, in my view, be an appropriate platform to improve cooperation between member states, to collect and disseminate good practice and experience or to provide funding. while the eu level is very important, i believe that the most effective results can be achieved at local or regional level. only in specific areas or towns will we have the best understanding of the local problems, needs and social environment, so that the projects we implement are closer to those for whom they are intended.
member of the commission. − people have often said that societies should be judged by the way they treat their weakest members. clearly, if we fail to provide adequate support for persons in need, we are likely to exclude them even further, and so make it harder to integrate them into society and bring them onto the labour market. the commission believes that, in addition to acting as automatic stabilisers, minimum income schemes can play an important role in protecting the most vulnerable from the worst effects of the crisis by providing safety nets. the commission recommendation on the active inclusion of people excluded from the labour market and the epsco council conclusions of 17 december 2008 on common active inclusion principles to combat poverty more effectively both highlight the importance of access to adequate resources, alongside quality services and inclusive labour markets. the recommendation calls on the member states in particular to ‘recognise the individual’s basic right to resources and social assistance sufficient to lead a life that is compatible with human dignity as part of a comprehensive, consistent drive to combat social exclusion’. the approach outlined in the recommendation has proved to be a step in the right direction, especially during the economic crisis. but more needs to be done to fully implement active inclusion reforms. as the commission announced in its communication on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, it will report in 2012 on the implementation of the common principles on active inclusion, focusing inter alia on the effectiveness of minimum income schemes. it will propose action based on that assessment, including ways in which eu financial instruments could support active inclusion.
i thank the commissioner for his reply, but i have not received it. my question was formulated as follows: is the european commission not going to initiate a framework directive on the guarantee of an adequate minimum income, because otherwise we will certainly not overcome poverty? even in the last year, during the year of the fight against poverty, poverty has increased in individual member states. another point: since a very large number of elderly people are actually falling into poverty, what would be your view, commissioner, if the commission were to initiate uniform criteria for a minimum pension throughout the european union?
the raw materials issue is integral to the growth and economic progress of the european union and the commission is to be congratulated on the raw materials strategy it has presented. however, potential future resource shortages should not be concentrated solely on addressing the issue of access to raw materials. i agree that this could be a very good opportunity to move the european union's economy towards a model based on more efficient use of resources. the reduction of the use of raw materials and a much higher focus on the efficient processing of raw materials is probably the most direct way to reduce the union's import needs. appropriate investment in the development of new processing technologies and alternative raw materials would significantly reduce dependence on imported rare earth elements. this could ensure that europe takes the lead in this area and make a significant contribution to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group as member states' economies and industry recover, gas demand will continue to increase. meanwhile, the rapidly decreasing own natural gas reserves may in fact make the union even more dependent on third-country suppliers and weaken the competitiveness of our industry. gas from alternative sources can be an effective solution by fundamentally reshaping the european gas map and redistributing economic weights. however, action is needed now and we could benefit from the experience gained in other countries. there has been a lot of talk lately about the potential of shale gas, as you, mr commissioner, have also pointed out today, and as the european council concluded on 4 february. i think that the european union really needs to set out concrete plans as soon as possible and start investigating possible accidents and their use. of course, shale gas, as you mentioned, is not and cannot be the only solution to reducing energy dependence. however, if the forecasts of european union geologists are confirmed, deposits of gas may be found not only in poland and germany but possibly in other countries as well. this would allow the impact of third countries on the european union's economy and competitiveness to be reduced in the future. unfortunately, in this area too, we are at least a decade behind the united states, whose gas market has been largely replaced by increasingly large quantities of shale gas. i believe that efforts must be stepped up in this area and that concrete measures must be taken to exploit these resources in the economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the general budgetary plan for 2012 and the priorities for the financing of the eu institutions. in the face of the ongoing economic crisis, ensuring sound financial management is essential to the implementation of the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. i agree with the rapporteur that the institutions should present cost reduction plans in the implementation of these principles. in addition, all costs incurred by the institutions should be clearly identified and justified. parliament and the other institutions should submit reports on the implementation of their budgets twice a year, indicating the implementation of each budget line. i therefore believe that parliament should demonstrate a responsible approach to the budget and moderation. the new title x of the eu budget for the european external action service, which provides for an allocation of eur 464 million, is welcome. however, i would urge the office to use the funds allocated effectively in carrying out its activities and to achieve concrete results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the budget for the following years must be responsibly balanced, with priority given to those areas which are integral to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the principle of sound management in terms of efficiency and effectiveness is essential in budgeting. it is necessary to ensure that the eu institutions have sufficient resources to enable them to perform their functions properly. at the same time, the institutions must also respond appropriately and effectively to the current financial, economic and social situation in the eu, apply strict management procedures and use resources prudently and efficiently. i agree that the eu institutions can make a considerable contribution to reducing costs and achieving economies of scale in areas such as centralisation of public procurement, shared institutional services, e-government systems, etc.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report because it is essential to give priority to the principle of good financial management, i.e. the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. it is necessary to take into account the results obtained in the implementation of the different policy areas and the variable costs should be regularly assessed in cost-benefit assessments where possible and necessary due to the scale of the costs. in implementing these principles, institutions should present cost-cutting plans; the benefits of centralisation for economies of scale (e.g. centralised public procurement, shared institutional services) should be considered. cooperation between the authorities is crucial for the exchange of best practices, which offers opportunities for efficiency improvements and savings. i believe that institutional cooperation should be improved in the areas of translation and interpretation, recruitment (epso) and emas and initiated in other areas. the european parliament and the other institutions should demonstrate budgetary responsibility and restraint in the face of the economic crisis and the high level of public debt and constraints in budgetary consolidation efforts at national level. parliament should aim at more perfect legislation and that all the necessary resources should be available to achieve this aim while respecting budgetary constraints.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the five eu member states with atlantic coastlines - france, ireland, portugal, spain and the united kingdom - require a strategy to coordinate their actions in the region. i agree with the rapporteur that the added value of eu regional strategies is linked to multi-level cooperation, coordination and better strategic investment of available funds, rather than the allocation of additional resources. i believe that this strategy would help to address issues of common interest such as environmental protection and climate change, including the prevention and control of marine pollution from ships, transport and communications, research, innovation, culture, leisure and tourism, maritime services and training, and the fisheries and seafood sectors. i would like to remind you that one of the first such strategies is the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, adopted by the european council in 2009, which covers 8 eu member states, including my country, lithuania. the strategy aims to make the baltic sea region environmentally sustainable, prosperous, attractive and accessible, and safe and secure. this strategy has already been successfully implemented and i believe that the euro-atlantic strategy would also benefit not only the region but the eu as a whole.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. territorial cohesion is one of the eu's key objectives and a prerequisite for an efficient, economically strong and competitive internal market. the atlantic region has certain characteristics linked to a dynamic marine zone whose environment needs to be preserved and which is affected by climate change. this is a remote region of the eu which faces major difficulties in accessibility and connectivity. i believe that it is essential to adopt this strategy as a matter of urgency, which will help to solve the key problems of this region in the areas of transport, opening up and connecting energy networks, developing marine energy, urban and rural development, strengthening land-sea links and sea-inland waterways.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, as is well known, the atlantic region has certain characteristics, namely: it is a dynamic maritime zone (for maritime transport, fisheries, marine energy, etc.), an area whose vulnerable environment needs to be preserved and where the effects of climate change are evident, and it is also a remote region of the eu with accessibility and transport problems and small urban centres. the eu atlantic strategy, an integrated strategy addressing maritime and territorial issues, needs to be developed as a matter of urgency. this strategy should provide for better coordination of objectives and measures closely linked to the europe 2020 strategy and the eu policy guidelines for the period after 2013. this strategy would aim to make better use of eu funds and to reduce costs. it is necessary to fully link this strategy to the eu's regional policy and integrated maritime policy. i believe it should also facilitate interaction with other eu policies, such as the trans-european transport networks, the common fisheries policy, the framework programme for research and technological development, energy policy and others. improving the accessibility of the atlantic coastal regions and increasing the movement of persons, goods and services within these regions is important in order to achieve the objectives of the internal market and the objective of cohesion policy, and in particular to develop short sea shipping and motorways of the sea.
in writing. − i support the resolution on a european atlantic strategy to contribute to the development of sustainable regional development. it will also be another step towards the european union's goal of territorial cohesion. in view of the geostrategic situation in the atlantic region, the commission must act without delay and prepare as soon as possible an integrated strategy for the region, which will strengthen international and tripartite cooperation initiatives and address maritime and territorial issues. it should be noted that effective territorial cooperation will promote the development of marine energy consumption and facilitate access to transport and electricity networks and links. to achieve its objectives, the strategy must be fully integrated into the eu's regional and integrated maritime policy. this is the only way to ensure synergies with other eu policies and to allow for a more targeted and efficient absorption and use of eu funds without increasing costs. the adoption of this strategy will also improve accessibility to the atlantic coastal regions and increase the movement of people, goods and services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2010 progress report on turkey. when turkey entered eu membership negotiations, it committed itself to reform, good neighbourliness and gradual rapprochement with the eu, but progress in turkey is clearly too slow, reflecting the reluctance of the turkish authorities to reform and democratise the country. the european parliament is deeply concerned about the deterioration of the situation of press freedom, certain cases of censorship and the increasing internal censorship of the turkish media, which is also carried out online. we condemn the restriction of freedom of assembly and in particular the police crackdown on student demonstrations at ankara university in december 2010. the european parliament is also concerned about the persecution of human rights defenders in turkey. and this is just one of the human rights violations in a country that is seeking eu membership. it is clear that the current human rights situation in turkey is complex and, in a way, contrary to the eu's values and policies. in this situation, eu membership negotiations are at a standstill. i therefore believe that the turkish authorities must urgently undertake radical reforms in all areas of governance or consider becoming a strategic partner rather than an eu member.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. turkey has committed itself to reform, good neighbourly relations and a gradual approach to the eu. these commitments and efforts by turkey should be seen as an opportunity for further renewal for turkey itself, in the light of the support of turkish citizens and civil society for the further democratization process in turkey and their commitment to building an open and pluralistic society. despite progress in some areas, the situation in turkey remains sufficiently complex. turkey's progress in reforms has been rather slow so far. the continuing confrontation between political parties and the unwillingness of the government and the opposition to work towards an agreement on major reforms is not leading to visible results, and in some areas the situation is deteriorating, especially in the area of press freedom. the turkish government has committed itself to comprehensive reforms to modernise its country and therefore greater efforts must be made to build a democratic state based on the principles of separation of powers and the balance between the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because accession negotiations with turkey were opened on 3 october 2005, after the council had approved the negotiating programme, and because the opening of these negotiations remains the starting point of a long process whose outcome is still unknown. turkey has committed itself to reform, good neighbourly relations and a gradual rapprochement with the eu, and these efforts should also be seen as an opportunity for further renewal for turkey itself. in line with the conclusions of the european council of december 2006, full compliance with all the copenhagen criteria remains the foundation for membership of the eu, which is a community based on common values. i have identified the following main aspects and priorities of integration, such as the development of good neighbourly relations, the strengthening of eu-turkey cooperation, the promotion of social cohesion and prosperity, and the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. - the european union needs turkey and vice versa. it is not just trade, economic relations and investment that are important. turkey, which turned its back on europe almost 100 years ago, can and must become the bridge that connects our continent with the muslim world. unfortunately, it has to be admitted that the negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu have slowed down. the eu expects progress, in particular in the areas of human rights, gender equality, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of religion. another important issue is the normalisation of relations with cyprus. this conflict must be resolved in favour of both turkey and cyprus. it is important to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict. the events in north africa demonstrate the important contribution turkey makes to promoting the values of stability and democracy. people in libya, egypt and other arab countries look to turkey and the eu as an example to follow. i voted for the report because it is well balanced. it reflects well the state of eu-turkey integration in 2010. i have always supported turkey's membership. but it would have to implement the ankara protocol, do more, especially in the areas of minorities, women, press freedoms, rule of law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on montenegro's european integration process. the european parliament welcomes the reforms undertaken by montenegro and appreciates the progress made in the process of european integration. on 17 december 2010, the european council adopted a decision to grant montenegro the status of a candidate country for accession to the european union. i support the resolution's regret that the candidate status is being separated from the right to negotiate. it is important that the decision to open these negotiations is not unduly delayed or unduly delayed. i hope that negotiations will start at the latest after the publication of the commission's 2011 progress report, if montenegro makes significant progress towards the criteria set by the commission.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european council has repeatedly reaffirmed that the future of the western balkans is linked to the european union and that growth and stability in the region are of paramount importance. progress in montenegro in various fields shows that the country is serious about preparing for european integration. the montenegrin government and the opposition parties have a common understanding of european integration and give priority to this issue. the report also shows that the preparatory measure for membership (pem) support is being well implemented in montenegro, with significant judicial and administrative reforms. montenegro is a successful regional cooperation and constructive regional partner and plays a stabilising role in the western balkans.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the montenegrin government and the opposition parties share a common commitment to european integration and give priority to this issue, which has led to significant progress in reform since the country's declaration of independence. i welcome the fact that montenegro has been granted the status of a candidate country for eu accession, as well as the possibility for montenegrin citizens to travel without visas (full visa liberalisation) to the eu schengen area. i am pleased that the process of developing the country's legal and constitutional framework is almost complete, that significant progress has been made in the adoption of important legislation in the fight against corruption, and that progress has been made in the reform of the judicial system. however, further reforms in the public administration sector, strengthening the human resources of local level administration, combating organised crime, and in particular money laundering and smuggling, and avoiding political interference in the media sector are still necessary to guarantee the independence of regulatory authorities.
in writing. − eu integration is a key driver of progress for montenegro. in the last 12 months, the country has achieved a lot: it has successfully implemented structural and economic reforms, effectively fought corruption, organised crime. montenegro is a country where ethnic minorities live together well and where good neighbourly relations are successfully promoted. the eu and montenegro therefore signed a stability and association agreement. i voted in favour of this resolution because it correctly indicates the next steps in the reform of montenegro. progress in the establishment of the rule of law, further administrative reforms, capacity building of civil servants, amendment of the electoral law, strengthening of civil society and independent media. it is important that the country maintains the momentum it has gained and continues the work it has started.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu roma inclusion strategy. roma are the largest ethnic minority in europe, but they are also the most isolated and therefore almost completely excluded from the economic life of the country. i agree with the rapporteur that roma integration is a necessary investment, because it is cheaper to integrate roma than to maintain the poor standard of living and economic conditions in which they live. the other important aspect that i would like to emphasise is that the overall inclusion of roma is fundamentally a human rights issue. the large number of roma in europe living in substandard conditions almost completely cut off from economic life and therefore unable to enjoy basic human rights, means that promoting their social inclusion cannot be seen as a mere matter of general policy adjustment, but must be addressed in order to close one of the biggest constitutional and human rights gaps in europe. the european parliament, by adopting this strategy, took the first step towards promoting the social and economic inclusion of the roma, and it is now up to the council and the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that this strategy is successfully implemented.
in writing. - the situation of roma in the eu is quite complex. a large proportion of europe's roma, estimated at between 10 and 12 million, suffer from persistent discrimination and experience high levels of social, cultural and economic exclusion, human rights violations. furthermore, the majority of roma communities live in regions that are among the least developed economically and socially in the union, which often leaves roma children without access to education and training systems that in the future discriminate against them in the labour market and prevent them from integrating into society. the european union has developed a number of useful instruments, mechanisms and funds to promote roma inclusion, but they are applied in a wide range of policy areas, which limits their impact and benefits. i agree that member states need to better implement the eu roma inclusion strategy and ensure full transposition and application of all relevant directives and other eu legislation, preventing segregation and discrimination against roma.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the roma in europe need the support of the european union (eu). the eu roma inclusion strategy proposes to establish mandatory minimum standards for education, employment, housing and healthcare. however, a large proportion of europe's roma live in substandard conditions and are almost completely excluded from economic life, thus deprived of basic human rights. in the proposed strategy, the european parliament thus gives priority to improving the employment, education, housing and social protection of roma. it is important to ensure that segregation of roma children in schools and classrooms is eliminated. it is also essential to promote the involvement of roma in all areas of public and political life, as well as to encourage their participation in the activities of non-governmental organisations. in order to implement the roma inclusion strategy, it is necessary to ensure that it is, in particular, an internal strategy of the european union and that the implementation of the priority areas and objectives is monitored by commission structures which provide an annual progress report on the implementation of the strategy and an evaluation of the results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, although i think that it should have been rejected. there is no need at this stage to strengthen the strategies targeted at one group only, but an effective and urgent strategy to tackle legal and illegal migration is needed, with a view to ensuring, in particular, economic stability, employment, security, public order and justice for all european citizens who are part of a member state in demographic, cultural, traditional, historical and economic terms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is urgently necessary to remedy the situation where the majority of the 10 to 12 million roma living in europe continue to suffer discrimination, economic and social exclusion, even in the 21st century. the path to integration is a long and complex process, which is adapted to the conditions of individual countries and local regions. the european union strategy should provide clear objectives, funding methods for programmes. however, the national governments and municipalities, which are best placed to know the situation in the region, have the greatest responsibility. education, healthcare, housing policy and faster integration of roma into the labour market are key to solving the long-standing problem. failure to integrate roma eu citizens properly into the societies of the eu member states would send a bad signal to eu integration policy in general.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on industrial policy for the globalisation era. the global economic crisis has affected european industry and to overcome the effects of the crisis and address these challenges, the eu needs an industrial policy approach that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work, while boosting the economy, increasing employment, reducing environmental degradation and improving quality of life. i therefore supported the call in the resolution for the commission and the member states to develop an ambitious, environmentally friendly and green eu industrial strategy to restore production capacity throughout the eu and to create high-skilled and well-paid jobs in the eu. the european parliament stresses the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) for industry, in particular in securing long-term jobs in the regions, as well as in maintaining economic and creative vitality and rapid economic growth. it is therefore necessary to ensure better access to finance for smes and, in particular, to develop effective alternatives to risk capital by creating a new financial market structure to strengthen the short- and long-term financing opportunities and the most acceptable sources of finance for smes; to open markets, to create the necessary conditions for fair competition and thus to allow more entrepreneurs and small enterprises to expand their activities and become companies operating across europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european union is the largest market in the world, but we are not exploiting its enormous potential. we have a very open market, but we face significant barriers to entry in foreign markets. the unfinished single market, in areas such as energy, forces us to submit to external conditions that directly affect our competitiveness. the viability of industry depends directly on the viability of our small and medium-sized sector, which, despite the measures adopted, is experiencing some very difficult times. i agree that innovation is at the heart of today's industry, but even in this area we cannot boast of our ability to respond in a timely manner to changing global market conditions. i believe that today we have a well-balanced and comprehensive vision of industry, and now the member states and the european commission will have to do their part to ensure that our ambitious ambitions allow us to create a modern and competitive industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because eu industry accounts for almost a third of the eu's gross value added, almost three quarters of european exports are industrial goods and almost a third of the workforce, or almost 57 million people, live off this. the recent economic crisis has had a severe impact on european industry. however, the crisis has highlighted the importance of industry to the eu economy and has shown that insufficient measures have been taken to fully address its needs in the current difficult situation. manufacturing industry growth is at its lowest level in two decades, and some european industries are experiencing a 'permanent crisis' due to unfair competition from third countries in the areas of labour relations, the environment and intellectual property protection. with the us, japan and china pursuing effective and active industrial policies that support modern products and services, european industry is at risk of falling behind. an integrated and sustainable eu industrial policy should be based on the following key aspects: the need to develop an innovation chain linking research and practical application, to use resources more efficiently and to increase the production of clean energy. the eu must be encouraged to adopt strategies for long-term change and to pursue education policies that respond to labour market needs. it is necessary to combat the distortive effects of the shadow economy and the spread of informal activities during the crisis, and it is also proposed to facilitate the participation of smes in public procurement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because eu industry has been hit hard by the current economic crisis. in the modern world, industrial competition is very high and industrial sectors need to remain competitive and innovative, based on innovative ideas and on quality and technical excellence. we need to strengthen the material base, introduce high-level technologies, and enable their easy transfer between companies. we must make every effort to exploit the resources (minerals) available within the european union, avoiding their export outside the eu and preventing the formation of oligopolistic structures in the trade sector. european support should not be used for starvation but for investments in the future, aimed at creating new jobs so that every citizen has a job in his or her own country. particular attention shall be paid to those regions identified as problematic, with a low level of industrial development and a high level of unemployment. in this context, the establishment of technology, industrial and scientific parks and business centres should be encouraged. these organisations are particularly important in actively developing and developing modern technologies, ensuring economic development and modernisation, while creating new jobs. small and medium-sized enterprises should be encouraged to invest in clusters. they must be given a favourable business environment and a reduced administrative burden. the entrenched bureaucracy hinders the development of industry and the competitiveness of the products produced.
the european union's relations with the iranian authorities are more than ambivalent. we're being manipulated. we talk about the democracy clause, but we're more into oil and gas. we have no democracy at heart, let it be trampled along with human rights. a few years ago, i was surprised by the publicity about the powerful construction technology that european union companies are providing to tehran. it is a deep-mining facility built for underground facilities that are likely to produce nuclear weapons without international control. tehran already has missiles that can reach almost all of europe, so let's help them make more of the christmas gifts we want. so the european deep-digging machines are digging a hole for the iranian peoples themselves, if israel's nerves fail to withstand the specter of a second exodus, and for europe and the world. it is unlikely that europe will be prepared for a challenge of the scale of iran's nuclear hegemony in the middle east and north africa in the first place. is anyone analyzing current events in this regard? other notable equipment is the powerful german and dutch construction cranes used by tehran for public executions of so-called criminal offenders and enemies of the regime. the torment on those european shores is said to be excruciating and the agony long lasting. executions continue today, as do the european supplies of equipment. it remains to be expected that the iranian authorities will not order mistral attack aircraft carriers for san nazar in the near future, but will be able to purchase them in russia, built under french licenses, at a later date. the eu will continue to support the efforts of the gulf states to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict. the situation of small countries around the baltic and black seas is of little concern, but the persian gulf is closer to the belly of europe. i suggest you think about it.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am pleased we also have the chance this afternoon to debate the work of the un human rights council and, in a sense, to look at how we can strengthen its overall impact. as honourable members may know, i addressed the council last week together with many foreign ministers from across the world. for obvious reasons on that occasion, the situation in libya was at the heart of our discussions. i am pleased that the international community sent a strong and united political signal regarding the ongoing human rights violations in libya. already before the high-level segment, the council had called for an inquiry and recommended the suspension of libya’s membership of the council – which, as you know, has since been confirmed by the general assembly in a unanimous decision. all that is proof that multilateral institutions can live up to their mandate and can act in what we call real time. as i stressed in my remarks there, the un human rights council has a responsibility to ensure that stated intentions are translated into real action and real progress. i think that ms pillay, the un high commissioner for human rights, whom i met in geneva, is giving exactly the right direction politically in order to make a difference on the ground. what matters in the end is not the number of resolutions that are passed, but results in the real world that make a difference to people who are in need. i also emphasised that human rights are universal. i pointed out that we in europe reject the accusation that somehow the eu is trying to ‘export’ so-called european values to other countries. the rights to free speech, freedom of assembly, justice and equality are not european rights: they are universal rights. we must never fall into the trap of believing that people in other parts of the world – whether it is africa, asia or latin america – should be any less passionate about their rights. that is why we speak out and we act against human rights violations wherever they occur. we also recognise that europe’s own path on human rights protection has not been a straight line and that constant efforts are also needed inside europe. at the human rights council we are ready to discuss our own challenges, share experiences and offer support to those working to improve respect for human rights around the world. we have several priorities for the 16th session of the human rights council and we have discussed these actively with our partners. the eu will present an initiative on freedom of religion or belief. faced in recent months with an increasing number of acts of religious discrimination and violence in different parts of the world, we need to send a strong, collective message against religious intolerance and in favour of the freedom of religion or belief for all people everywhere. we will also table resolutions on burma/myanmar and the democratic people’s republic of korea. we believe that in both cases the severity and number of human rights violations justify the extension of the mandates of the respective un special rapporteurs. the eu also supports the initiative to create a special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in iran, as proposed by several countries and regions. we are seriously concerned about the deteriorating human rights situation in iran. this was highlighted by the un high commissioner for human rights, ms navi pillay. a particular concern is the dramatically increasing number of death penalty cases – more than 100 so far this year, as we discussed in our previous debate – and the repression of those exercising their rights to freedom of expression and assembly.we feel the council should address the situation in egypt in an appropriate manner, taking into account the rapidly evolving situation in that country. the eu welcomes egypt’s invitation to ms pillay to send members of her office to the country. we hope this mission will be dispatched without delay. the eu also is engaging with the tunisian authorities to jointly present a draft resolution on the subject of boosting un technical assistance on human rights in the context of ongoing transition. other key situations that need to be addressed by this session of the human rights council are belarus, where we are deeply concerned at the number of political prisoners, the democratic republic of congo – where there are distressing reports of continuing human rights violations, in particular widespread sexual violence – as well as côte d'ivoire. let me conclude by stressing once again the importance of the human rights council for the eu: the debates, the resolutions and the rapporteurs. but in the end, these are only inputs. what truly matter are the outputs. the real test is whether we make a difference on the ground. for that reason, the eu will work hard to strengthen the human rights council and especially its ability to address urgent situations. this is a key objective of the ongoing review process. we will continue to push for an ambitious result.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to express my full support for the decision taken by the un general assembly on 1 march to suspend libya’s membership of the united nations human rights council. i think this sends a strong signal, not only to colonel gaddafi and his regime but also to those countries in the world where human rights violations are frequent and widespread. in my report on the un human rights council and the eu’s role in it – adopted by this house in february 2009 – i strongly advocated the introduction of membership criteria for this important un body. in the case of libya, the united nations general assembly acted in line with the european parliament resolution and took a correct and timely decision. speaking of the 16th session, i would like to draw special attention to the council’s review process. it is important that the eu member states and the european external action service actively engage in the 2011 review of the council to strengthen compliance with its mandate. the unhrc should become more an early-warning and preventive mechanism. there is also a need for a transparent and all-inclusive review process, including ngos, civil society and all relevant stakeholders. last but not least, i would like to welcome the establishment of the directorate for human rights and democracy in the eeas system. the establishment of the external action service also provides us with a unique opportunity to streamline our action on the protection of human rights in the united nations human rights council. i therefore want to encourage the high representative to make sure that european efforts in the human rights council are well coordinated and that eu member states belonging to this body are united and effective as never before.
in fact, in the context of an economic crisis, countries have financial problems in meeting their commitments and, of course, have different possibilities to overcome these consequences, and it is necessary to look for ways to balance the budget, to reduce the budget deficit. but, commissioner, is it really necessary to do this at the expense of the most deprived? is it morally right for the european commission to pressure national governments to reduce minimum wages, pensions or other social benefits? commissioner, you have expressed your views on the irish memorandum. but i want to remind you that you signed a similar memorandum with latvia, where you pressured the latvian government to reduce already low pensions. pensions in latvia were reduced, but the constitutional court of that country said that the country's basic law did not allow it, and those pensions were restored. so when you make these decisions, when you sign these memoranda, you have to be very careful about the legal and social implications.
for the efd group the fact that we are talking today again about the volcanic ash crisis shows that this topic is still relevant and that there are still unanswered questions. we understand that volcanoes are not subject to any rules and we cannot rule out the possibility of unforeseen circumstances. all of this is part of the life of the aviation industry, but aviation is not only disrupted by volcanoes but also by storms, snow and similar phenomena. of course, it is not possible to eliminate, block or foresee everything that can happen in the field of aviation. of course, the safety of aircraft, the lives of people and their mobility must be one of our top priorities. i am pleased that a large-scale programme is under way to modernise air traffic management in the context of the single sky. i agree with what my colleague said just now, that we need to work together to build a common infrastructure. but i would say that, in terms of this problem, we should be thinking and talking about the development of alternative transport today. further progress is needed and necessary in this area. the crisis particularly affected the eastern european union, which remained isolated from the western european part and, unlike the other european union countries, did not have sufficient alternative transport options. we now know that we urgently need to develop alternative secondary mobility systems, trans-european networks, rail networks, an alternative to air transport, as has been done wisely with electricity and telecommunications networks. the revision of the trans-european networks should therefore be subject to higher targets in the light of the financial perspective. land transport, and in particular rail, should be able to replace air transport more smoothly when it is interrupted. it is time to consider concrete alternatives and to implement them as soon as possible.
in writing. − media pluralism and freedom is one of the eu's core principles, guaranteeing the right to freedom of expression and to receive and impart information without control, interference or pressure from public authorities. the hungarian media law has been the subject of concern from international organisations and the european commission has concluded, following an investigation, that it is incompatible with the audiovisual media services directive and the community acquis in general. i support the proposal in the resolution that the hungarian authorities should review the media law in the light of the comments of the commission, the osce, the council of europe commissioner for human rights, the committee of ministers of the council of europe and the parliamentary assembly, ensuring that this law is in line with eu law and european values and standards of media freedom, pluralism and independence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as the hungarian media law should be suspended and reviewed accordingly in the light of the comments and proposals of the european commission, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and the council of europe, in order to ensure that it is fully in line with european union (eu) law and european values and standards of media freedom, pluralism and independent media governance. the european parliament also recalls that all member states of the european union must respect the copenhagen criteria for eu membership, adopted at the 1993 copenhagen european council, on freedom of the press and freedom of expression, and apply them in accordance with the relevant provisions of eu law. the european parliament therefore calls on the hungarian authorities to restore the independence of the media authorities and to stop the state interference in freedom of expression and the balanced provision of information. it also considers that excessive regulation of the media is detrimental to the presence of effective pluralism in the public sphere. parliament also called on the commission to present a proposal for an eu law on media freedom, pluralism and independent governance by the end of the year, with a view to establishing minimum mandatory standards to ensure, protect and promote an appropriate level of media pluralism and independent governance in the eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the hungarian authorities must restore the independence of the media authorities and stop the state interference in freedom of expression and the balanced provision of information. over-regulation of the media is detrimental to the existence of effective pluralism in the public sphere.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the recent mass protests in many arab countries have shown that undemocratic and authoritarian regimes cannot guarantee reliable stability and that democratic values are paramount in the implementation of economic and political partnerships. the eu has a strong interest in a democratic, stable, prosperous and peaceful north africa, but recent events in libya, egypt and tunisia have highlighted the urgent need to rethink the eu's external policy towards the mediterranean region. it is necessary to review its policy on the promotion of democracy and human rights with a view to establishing a mechanism for the implementation of the human rights clause in all agreements with third countries. i agree that the principles of the european neighbourhood policy need to be reconsidered, giving priority to criteria relating to judicial independence, respect for fundamental freedoms, pluralism, freedom of the press and the fight against corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the eu needs to be involved in and support the processes in the neighbouring southern countries, in particular the development of the rule of law, good governance and constitutional and electoral provisions, which are necessary to ensure stable, pluralistic and peaceful democracy in the region. the union of the mediterranean states needs to adapt to a new era and circumstances, reflect on recent developments and take action to make proposals on how best to promote democracy and human rights in its member states and throughout the region, including libya, as well as possible reforms to strengthen, make more coherent and more effective the role of the union itself.
in writing. − the islamic republic of iran (hereinafter iran) is experiencing a variety of governance challenges, such as factional competition for influence within the country's ruling elite, infighting, major social and economic problems, a problematic regional security situation and growing internal discontent. the policy pursued by the iranian regime does not respond to the legitimate demands of the iranian people. the iranian people's dissatisfaction with the government, due to the difficult social and economic situation, as well as the lack of a navy and basic respect for human dignity in iran, is the greatest threat to the regime. in addition, the country continues to suffer from gross human rights violations. according to the annual reports on the death penalty in iran, the number of executions in 2009 was the highest in 10 years, and iran nevertheless became the country with the highest number of executions per capita in the world. welcomes the call in the report for iran to completely abolish the death penalty for crimes committed by persons under the age of 18 and to amend its legislation which is not in line with international human rights conventions ratified by iran, including the convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights; calls on iran to publish official statistics on the use of the death penalty;
in writing. − i voted for this document because democratic change cannot be imposed from the outside, or even by military means, but must be achieved through a peaceful democratic process. as is known, the proliferation risks associated with iran's nuclear programme remain a major concern for the eu and the international community, as expressed very clearly in many unsc resolutions. the stabilising influence that iran could regain by normalising its international relations, in particular with its neighbours, by allaying concerns about its intentions to pursue a nuclear programme and by ensuring respect for human rights and democracy is essential for the benefit of the entire region.
in writing. − the european union and its member states are committed to respect for human rights in their policies. it is therefore essential that the eu can play a strong and influential role in international organisations, and in particular in the united nations human rights council, in ensuring the implementation of effective and consistent human rights policies on a global scale. i agree that the activities and mandate of the unhrc must be reviewed in order to evaluate and improve the working methods of this committee in order to respond as effectively and systematically as possible to human rights violations. on several occasions, the unhrc has failed to address the complexity of human rights issues in a timely and urgent manner because it lacked the appropriate means. the unhrc should therefore have more means to address the problems of permanent and emergency situations by expanding its human rights toolbox through the use of working groups not only during sessions but also between them. the eu, in turn, needs to make the unhrc a priority and better coordinate member states' actions, which would allow the eu to better use its influence in the wider un system and facilitate coordination and decision-making in the field of human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the european union and its member states must ensure respect for human rights in their policies and the european union's position in the united nations human rights council (unhrc) should be stronger and more effective. a review of the un human rights council sessions and of the 2011 human rights priorities is necessary to assess the implementation of the human rights council's mandate and to identify the objectives and working methods that need to be improved in order to make the unhrc more effective and to respond in a timely manner to human rights violations. parliament regrets that the unhrc has repeatedly failed to address the complexity of human rights issues in a timely and urgent manner due to a lack of adequate means, and therefore actively seeks to establish targeted unhrc mechanisms to respond rapidly to human rights crises, such as those in the middle east and north africa, iran and belarus. it is also essential that the human rights council has more tools to address the problems of permanent and emergency situations, possibly by expanding the human rights toolbox through the use of working groups not only during sessions but also between them. parliament also calls on the eu member states to actively participate in the 2011 review of the unsc in order to strengthen compliance with its mandate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the unhrc is a unique body with a special focus on universal human rights and a special forum within the un system to address human rights issues, with the important task and responsibility of strengthening the promotion, protection and respect of human rights worldwide. the 16th session of the unhrc, and in particular the unhrc review process, is of particular importance as it is a unique opportunity to assess how the unhrc has implemented its mandate and an opportunity for the unhrc to improve its working methods in order to respond more effectively and systematically to human rights violations. i am pleased that the agenda of the 16th ordinary session includes reports on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities and on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the fight against terrorism, as well as a number of meetings on the rights of the child.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the un human rights council plays a very important role in addressing human rights issues worldwide. the review process is a great opportunity to assess how the unodc has fulfilled its functions. i agree with the proposal that the eu should have a common position on the issues under discussion. in addition, member states should be more actively involved in the review of the council's activities. the inclusion on the agenda of the 16th session of the conference of the parties of issues relating to the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, the rights of the child and the fight against terrorism is to be welcomed. however, in order to improve people's living conditions, the session should address issues related to the right to water and sanitation. an effective mechanism for the implementation and protection of this fundamental human right must be ensured. every effort should be made to achieve global commitments in this area and to ensure that everyone has access to safe drinking water and sanitation.
on behalf of the s&d group this resolution is a clear signal to the belarusian authorities that the european union has not tolerated and will not tolerate restrictions on freedom of demonstration, political prisoners in the country and even more so torture in detention facilities. brussels is increasing its support for civil society, non-governmental organisations, independent media and students in belarus. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the visa regime is simplified and that the visa requirements are met. i think it would be very useful in this situation for a delegation of the european parliament to go to belarus, despite the obstacles to this, and if the whole delegation cannot go, then the members of the european parliament must go there individually to get to know the situation better and to influence it.
in writing. − today we voted in favour of amending article 136 of the lisbon treaty, which will allow the eu to establish a stability mechanism applicable only to euro area members. the european stability mechanism will aim to strengthen the budgetary discipline of the euro area member states, the coordination of their economic and financial policies and a common european response to challenges such as growth, the reduction of economic and social disparities and the improvement of competitiveness. i believe that this mechanism will help to ensure greater financial stability in the euro area and will accelerate the economic recovery of the euro area member states. however, the non-euro area countries that have been hit hardest by the crisis will be left behind and prevented from recovering their economies more quickly and sustainably. i believe that the eu must show more solidarity and provide full support to member states so that they can join the club of eurozone countries and become full eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the amendment to the treaty of lisbon which has been adopted will allow the creation of a permanent euro stability mechanism. the current situation shows that we are in a difficult economic and financial situation and that very concrete measures of economic coordination and surveillance must be taken. however, this mechanism and the guarantee fund are only available to euro area members, leaving non-euro area countries out of the loop, which in turn contributes to the eu's fragmentation. i believe that the eu should show more solidarity by helping not only the euro area member states but also the non-euro area member states to become full and equal eu member states as soon as possible, thus removing the temporary discrepancy in the eu treaty between the accession of member states and contributing to the creation of a more cohesive eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important for the whole of the european union as it recovers from the severe financial crisis. in this context, it is essential to establish a mechanism to stabilise the euro area and ensure its efficient and effective functioning and development. the european stability mechanism is a permanent aid fund to help euro area countries affected by the crisis. however, the effective functioning of this mechanism requires its full integration into the institutional framework of the union. in particular, it is necessary to ensure that it is open from the outset to all member states, including those whose currency is not the euro. i think it is appropriate to provide for financial instruments which would allow the purchase of bonds from those member states which are facing particularly serious debt problems. this would open the way for them to access financial markets, thereby facilitating a faster economic recovery. i support the proposal to involve other eu institutions in the governance process of the mechanism, giving the commission more powers to effectively implement the union's enlarged functions in this area.
today we voted in favour of an amendment to the lisbon treaty which will allow the creation of a permanent euro stability mechanism. we have shown solidarity by agreeing to the amendment of the treaty and by understanding that we are in a difficult economic and financial situation and that we need to take very concrete measures of economic coordination and surveillance. this mechanism and the guarantee fund, which are only available to euro-area members, although non-euro-area countries are excluded, essentially threaten to fragment the european union and to abandon community methods. the european union must therefore also show greater solidarity by helping non-euro area members to join the club as soon as possible and to regain full decision-making rights in the european union, thus removing the temporary discrepancy in the treaty on european union that has arisen as a result of the accession of the member states.
the japanese nation has suffered the unimaginable effects of natural disasters and nuclear accidents. the people of lithuania are actively gathering support and are trying to help the victims of this country in every possible way. the chernobyl nuclear disaster has left a deep impression on our minds, and it will continue to do so for a long time. three decades later, the region is still reeling from the effects. the japanese disaster is forcing a fundamental rethink on nuclear safety. we cannot control natural disasters, so we must at least ensure that natural disasters do not trigger additional, but extremely painful, nuclear disasters. i am in favour of reviewing existing infrastructure and building new capacity, but we must also analyse in detail the events at the japanese nuclear power plant, especially since there is a precedent for chernobyl. we must draw conclusions and adopt measures which will make it possible to substantially increase nuclear safety throughout europe.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the people of japan for the earthquake and tsunami that devastated the country and claimed many lives. in the light of the tragic disaster at the fukushima nuclear power plant following the earthquake and tsunami, i would urge europe to consider the future of nuclear energy and to look for alternatives to energy production. in addition, we must rely on the information and knowledge of specialists and experts and look at new ways of generating electricity from a scientific perspective when assessing the consequences of the disaster. the events in japan should be of concern to all member states, whether or not they have nuclear power stations, because if similar disasters occur, radiation would threaten the whole of europe. at present, eastern european countries, especially the baltic states, are very concerned about the plans of russia and belarus to build nuclear power plants. the radiation effects of these planned nuclear power plants and the adherence of neighbouring countries to international safety standards are of even greater concern. i would like to point out that germany closed down all its reactors built before 1980 immediately after the japanese tragedy. the eu energy commissioner also argues that europe should strive for a future without nuclear power plants. the european parliament should therefore consider the risks of nuclear power stations on the external borders of the european union, after having assessed the potential radiation threat to europe.
in writing. – we should not only focus on nuclear safety within the eu, but also look at its immediate neighbourhood. two new projects for nuclear power plants with experimental reactors are being developed on the edges of the eu: one in kaliningrad and another located in belarus, 23 km from the eu’s external border and 50 km from lithuania’s capital city. both sites were selected on unknown criteria. the lack of transparency in the process, flawed consultations and failure to share information with the affected countries make both projects a cause for serious concern. work has already started, although the international environmental impact assessments of both plants are far from complete. moreover, immediately after the tragedy in japan, russia and belarus signed an agreement giving a green light to build the plant in belarus. data from the chernobyl and fukushima tragedies show that the area of immediate radioactive impact is 50-55 km. in the event of an accident, the capital of an eu member state would be immediately affected. the eu should demand that these third countries take their responsibilities seriously and carefully observe international obligations and standards for nuclear energy. i hope the upcoming european council will agree to take the appropriate decisions.
for the efd group the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, extended the conditions under which parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. at present, aviation agreements fall into this category as they fall within the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure. i believe that the implementation of these agreements would bring significant economic benefits and create jobs. moreover, greater harmonisation would promote fair competition. while the stage two agreement is an important step forward, it is important that it is not seen as the end of the process of creating a transatlantic aviation market. as far as canada is concerned, it is good that all european union companies will be able to operate direct flights to canada from any european country. the agreement removes all restrictions on routes, prices or the number of flights per week between canada and the eu. the broad ambition of this agreement should be particularly appreciated. it can be seen as a model for other negotiations currently under way. i therefore believe that parliament should give its consent to the eu-canada air transport agreement. the same applies to the air transport agreement between the european union and the government of the socialist republic of vietnam. all these air transport agreements are useful and necessary for the european union, our airlines and our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this communication, which increases the tariff quotas for wine grapes for moldova. moldova is experiencing difficulties in wine exports, which threaten its economic recovery and agriculture, especially medium-sized and family farms. the agricultural sector accounts for about 40 percent of moldova's economy. the wine sector alone employs some 300 000 people, most of whom live in rural areas. moldova has so far fully used its quota and the increase in the duty-free tariff quotas will allow moldova to increase its sales of its production to the eu without harming the eu wine industry.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this document as it proposes to increase the tariff quota for wine beet from 100 000 hectolitres (hl) to 150 000 hl in 2011 from 120 000 hl to 180 000 hl in 2012 and from 2013 to 240 000 hl per year. such an increase is proposed on the basis of the systematic use of the existing quota by moldova to date and the potential of the moldovan wine sector to improve its niche markets in the european union, and such an increase will not destabilise the eu wine industry. the wine sector in moldova is expected to continue to improve the quality of wine. in view of the expiry of council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 on 31 december 2012 and the importance of ensuring legal certainty for producers, exporters and importers, it is proposed to extend the validity of council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 for a further three years, until 31 december 2015.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which proposes to increase the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova in the wine sector, which is vital for this country. it should be noted that this would be an even greater incentive to strengthen the mutual relations between the european union and moldova, to develop the eu's good neighbour policy. given that moldova has so far fully used the wine quota established, i support the proposal to increase the tariff quota for wine without sparkling wine. it should be noted that such regulation will not have any negative consequences for the eu wine industry. moldova is one of the weakest countries in europe, facing major problems not only economically but also politically. the eu should facilitate moldova's choice of the right geopolitical direction to help resolve the country's difficulties. moreover, the provisions of this resolution will create favourable conditions for the moldovan wine sector to improve the quality of the product. i believe it is appropriate to extend the whole regulation for a further three years in order to provide legal clarity and certainty for wine producers, exporters and importers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report since the generalised system of preferences (gsp) is a highly important trade and development mechanism that the eu has at hand. however, i would like to urge the commission to come up with a more substantial review of the gsp scheme as soon as possible. i also think it is time for us to engage in a more substantial review of the gsp and gsp+ beneficiaries’ lists. the european parliament should be consulted on this issue from the earliest stage. i also expect that parliament will be involved in the process of monitoring whether the gsp+ beneficiaries uphold the 27 ilo and un conventions, something that must be scrutinised thoroughly in order to maintain the reliability of the gsp+ mechanism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in 1968, the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) recommended the creation of a common system of preferences (cps), under which industrialized countries would grant unilateral trade preferences to all developing countries, not just their former colonies. the european community was the first to implement the scheme in 1971, and it became one of the main instruments of trade and development policy, helping developing countries to reduce poverty by generating revenues from international trade. the eu gsp provides the least developed countries with the most favourable treatment for importing their products into the eu market without duties and quotas. the system also contributes to the promotion of sustainable development and good governance in developing countries that ratify and implement international conventions and protocols in the fields of human and labour rights, environmental protection, the fight against drugs and the fight against corruption.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the eu's 'general system of preferences' becomes more transparent. it is important that eu tariff preferences for imports from third countries are based on democracy and ethics, not just profit. tariff preferences should benefit society as a whole and not just a certain number of undertakings. the rapporteur rightly noted that the proposal to extend the current regulation is not ideal, but it would avoid a legal vacuum lasting more than six months. the existing regulation does not give the european parliament the right to express an opinion on the eligibility criteria or the list of beneficiary countries. this should change: it is time for parliament to use the powers granted to it by the lisbon treaty in the field of trade. the eu should pay more attention to developing cooperation with neighbouring countries in the field of trade policy. this would help to create stable and liberal business conditions and allow for the gradual expansion of the eu's single market. the eu should have an interest in signing a free trade agreement with ukraine and in entering into negotiations with the other eastern partnership countries that are members of the world trade organisation georgia, moldova and armenia.
in writing. − i have approved this protocol amending the eu-us air transport agreement. the protocol contains important provisions for the advancement of eu-us cooperation in air transport. it also avoids the risk that, in the absence of such an agreement, someone could invoke the suspension clause provided for in the first-stage agreement. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 march 2008 and that the agreement was signed on 1 march 2008. it should also be noted that this new agreement has created opportunities for new investment and market access opportunities and enhanced cooperation in regulatory areas such as safety, security and the environment. for the latter, the two parties agreed to draw up a separate joint statement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has extended the conditions under which parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. aviation agreements fall into this category because they fall within the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure. the eu and us aviation markets account for about 60% of the world's air transport. the non-discriminatory opening of the market to eu and us airlines would provide a diversified and cost-efficient service to passengers and cargo operators, and would result in significant economic benefits and job creation. harmonised legislation would be a major contribution to promoting fair competition, in particular in the areas of state subsidies and social and environmental standards. while the stage two agreement is an important step forward, it is important that it is not seen as the end of the process of creating a transatlantic aviation market. i believe that the commission should plan negotiations on a next stage agreement covering, inter alia, the following issues: further liberalisation of rights of way; additional opportunities for foreign investment; the impact of environmental measures and infrastructure constraints on the exercise of rights of way; better organisation of passenger rights policy to ensure the best possible level of protection for passengers. harmonised standards of passenger rights, including those of persons with reduced mobility, are particularly important in order to avoid discrimination between passengers during journeys. all these air transport agreements are useful and necessary for the eu, our airlines and our citizens.
in writing. − the open skies agreement between the united states and the european union is a guarantee of progress for both regions, a reflection of their economic level. the full opening of the transatlantic market would be an important step towards improving the situation in the global air transport sector. both countries would benefit from millions of dollars in economic benefits, creating many new jobs, business development opportunities. we cannot afford to ignore safety requirements for economic gain. air safety and security standards are vital for passengers, crew and the aviation sector as a whole. in the field of safety, harmonisation of standards should be achieved in an incremental manner. eu and us authorities responsible for aviation safety must cooperate at all levels. eu safety standards shall comply with the requirements established by the international civil aviation organisation. we must do everything we can to ensure that the fate of ourselves, our children and all those we love and care for is not jeopardised. we cannot allow the european union to apply to flight crew members, their working hours and their rest periods, lower safety standards which would put human lives in mortal danger.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-canada air transport agreement. the agreement includes the gradual granting of flight rights, investment opportunities and the development of intensive cooperation in various areas, including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. all eu airlines will be able to operate direct flights to canada from any european country. it is also welcome that this agreement removes all restrictions on routes, prices or the number of flights per week between canada and the eu. air carriers will be free to enter into commercial agreements, such as on common codes, which are important for airlines with many routes, and to set tariffs in accordance with the competition law of the parties.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the agreement includes the gradual granting of flight rights, investment opportunities and the development of intensive cooperation in a wide range of areas, including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. all eu airlines will be able to operate direct flights to canada from any european country. this agreement removes all restrictions on routes, prices or the number of flights per week between canada and the eu. air carriers will be free to enter into commercial agreements, such as code sharing agreements, which are important for airlines with many routes, and to set their fares in accordance with competition law. the agreement includes provisions on the gradual opening-up of the market, which are linked to the condition that both parties to the agreement must grant each other greater freedom of investment. the broad ambition of this agreement should be particularly appreciated. it can be seen as a model for other negotiations currently under way. i therefore believe that parliament should give its consent to the eu-canada air transport agreement. all these air transport agreements are useful and necessary for the european union, our airlines and our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. the agreement aims to ensure that all eu air carriers can benefit from air services between europe and vietnam without discrimination. this agreement also ensures that the safety provisions of bilateral agreements are applied in cases where the regulatory control of an air carrier is exercised by a member state other than the one that has designated that air carrier. i also think it is very important that the agreement prohibits any activity that distorts competition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because international aviation links between member states and third countries have traditionally been established by bilateral air services agreements. as regards the bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and vietnam, it is welcome that they aim to ensure that all eu air carriers can benefit from air services between europe and vietnam without discrimination; the safety provisions of the bilateral agreements would apply in cases where the regulatory control of an air carrier is exercised by a member state other than the one that has designated the air carrier; and that any distortion of competition is prohibited. all these air transport agreements are useful and necessary for the european union, our airlines and our citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and would like to urge eu and gcc leaders to intensify cooperation, especially in the area of trade, since negotiations on a free-trade agreement between the eu and the gcc were opened 20 years ago and still have not been concluded. apart from being strategically a very important region for the eu and the west in general, the gcc states are also important trade partners. our trade with this region has been on a constant rise and in 2009 it amounted to eur 79.7 billion. we also have a positive trade balance with gcc countries, as we export goods worth eur 57.8 billion and our imports amount to eur 21.8 billion. the eeas should pay more attention to this important region and new eu diplomatic missions should be opened in the gcc member states. in this way we would be able to raise the profile of the eu and have more influence in this part of the world. eu engagement is needed now more than ever considering the turmoil and unrest this region is experiencing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european union and the gulf cooperation council (gcc) have been negotiating a free trade agreement for some 20 years. it is the oldest trade negotiation of the european union that has been launched and has not yet been concluded. during this period, the situation in the region has changed significantly. the gulf states have become a major economic driver in the north africa and middle east region in the last couple of decades, and the region itself is an emerging region with a significant impact on the global economy. i agree with the suggestions in the report that a free trade agreement with this important region of the eu should be concluded as soon as possible. the potential for cooperation between the eu and the gulf region extends beyond trade to other shared mutual interests in international security, the fight against terrorism, diplomatic mediation in the middle east where tensions are high, regional crisis management, intercultural dialogue and global economic governance.
in writing. − by voting in favour of this report, i support the demonstrations for democracy and human rights in bahrain and condemn the government's violent response. iran, iraq, yemen, oman, the united arab emirates, qatar, saudi arabia, kuwait gcc countries represent the sixth largest export market for the eu and the eu is the second largest trading partner of the gcc countries; while trade between these countries is already intensive, it can be further expanded and diversified, given the size of the eu market and the efforts of the acp countries to diversify their exports; a free trade agreement would also open up new opportunities for technical cooperation and assistance; a free trade agreement between the ec and the acp would promote closer relations and further diversification. this document reiterates the eu's opposition to the death penalty and calls for a global moratorium on the use of the death penalty. regrets that the death penalty is still maintained in all gcc countries; calls therefore for the adoption of a moratorium on the death penalty and on executions; states that use methods such as beheading, stoning, crucifixion, amputation or flogging are therefore particularly encouraged to end such methods.
in writing. − i support this resolution on relations between the european union and the gulf cooperation council, as the gulf region is currently seen as a newly emerging pole of the global economy, whose geopolitical environment is linked to security issues that affect not only the region but the whole world. moreover, the gcc countries represent the sixth largest export market for the eu and the eu is their second largest trading partner, and there is a need to expand and diversify the relationship. we must make every effort to expand cooperation in various fields of economic and technical activity, including by strengthening the process of economic development. in addition, strong economic interconnections would increase the potential for strengthening the eu's regional integration and would create more opportunities for the eu to contribute to the stability of this strategically important region. we must make every effort to bring the negotiations between the two regions to a conclusion and to conclude a free trade agreement that guarantees new opportunities for technical cooperation and assistance.
in writing. − the european parliament has consistently called on the gulf cooperation council states to improve the state of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, even before the democratic wave in the arab countries. our socialist group has particularly stressed the need for reform of social policy and greater freedom for trade unions. we spoke out strongly against the death penalty and against mentioning women's rights. i support the demonstrations for democracy and human rights in bahrain and condemn the government's violent response. i support the rapporteur's call for the eu to share its experience in the gulf states in the deployment of renewable energy technologies. i also call for the negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and the gulf states to be accelerated. the potential for cooperation between the two regions is not only in the economic field but also in international security, the fight against terrorism, diplomatic mediation in the middle east conflict, dialogue between cultures and the management of the global economy.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the european council, by letter of 18 february 2011, consulted the european parliament on the appointment of peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years as from 1 june 2011, as the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs has further assessed the candidate's personal data and as part of this assessment the committee has received his cv and his replies to the written questions sent to it, as on 16 march 2011 the committee held a hearing with the candidate for one and a half hours, during which the candidate made an introductory speech and answered questions from the members of the committee, and as a favourable opinion was given to the european council on the council's recommendation to appoint peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as, in view of the fact that a hearing of the selected candidate by the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority) took place on 17 march 2011 in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and as it was decided that adam fark fulfils the criteria laid down in article 51 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010, the appointment of adam fark as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority) was also endorsed.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as, in view of the fact that the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of 17 march 2011 held a hearing with the candidate selected by the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) and as carlos montalvo fulfils the criteria laid down in article 51 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010, the appointment of carlos montalvo as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) has been approved.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as, in view of the fact that the hearing of the candidate selected by the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority) took place on 17 march 2011 at the meeting of the economic and monetary committee, and as it was decided that verena ross meets the criteria set out in article 51 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010, the appointment of verena ross as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority) was also endorsed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the priority objectives of the eu 2020 strategy (promoting employment, public spending on innovation, research and technological development, tackling climate change and meeting energy objectives, improving education and promoting social inclusion) should help europe to recover from the crisis and to strengthen itself, ensuring progress, sustainable and inclusive growth. the funding allocated at european and national level must be properly aligned with the objectives pursued. the eu needs to be provided with the necessary financial means to respond adequately to growing global challenges, to defend and promote common interests effectively and to ensure a faster recovery of member states' economies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the 2012 budget must promote growth and employment in the context of a strengthened european economic governance, the european semester system and the europe 2020 objectives. the eu 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and strengthen itself by delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth underpinned by the five eu core objectives of promoting employment, improving conditions and public spending for innovation, research and technological development, meeting climate change and energy objectives, improving education and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction. the difficult economic situation across the union makes it more important than ever to ensure the proper implementation of the eu budget and the quality of spending and the optimal use of existing community funding. the eu budget must help the eu to overcome the current economic and financial crisis and be used as a tool for investment, growth and job creation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the procedure for submitting single applications for residence and work permits for third-country nationals. this document establishes a single application procedure for third-country nationals seeking to enter the territory of a member state to work and ensures their legal status. this will undoubtedly simplify the often complex administrative procedure for the reception of economic migrants. i agree with the rapporteur that one of the best ways to combat illegal immigration and illegal work is to establish a balanced legal immigration policy that meets the needs of our labour markets. economic immigration is a reality we have to deal with, but it is also a necessity in view of the demographic and economic challenges that the european union will face in the near future. it should be noted that this document does not define the conditions for the admission of third-country nationals. member states remain responsible for determining the reception conditions and the number of migrants they wish to admit to their territory for work. it is time for the european union to draw up legislation on economic immigration to establish a common approach to be followed by the 27 member states. the amendments to the lisbon treaty have made this progress possible, and now we have to make it a reality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the directive on a single residence and work permit for third-country workers should be a general framework directive on the rights of third-country workers, as this is the only way for this european legislation to contribute to the european union's objective of establishing a common migration policy. unfortunately, the position adopted today by the european parliament on the single directive on residence and work permits has not improved the commission's proposal for this directive. it is not acceptable that legally arrived migrant workers from third countries, working in the same jobs as european union workers, should have the same rights and working conditions as local workers. it is necessary to recognise that legal migrant workers contribute to the economy of the european union both through their work and through their taxes and social contributions and that they must therefore be guaranteed the same minimum rights and equal treatment in the labour market. i would like to stress that there can be no two-tier labour market, either within the european union or outside it. we cannot allow the creation of a second class of workers in the european union labour market, discriminated against as a second gender, without any rights, without any guarantees, otherwise all the social standards that have been established so far will be forgotten.
in writing. − the hague programme recognised that legal immigration will be crucial for economic development. in this context, the commission was invited to present a policy plan to enable the labour market to respond quickly to the constantly changing demand for foreign labour. in accordance with the stockholm programme adopted by the european council on 10 and 11 december 2009, labour immigration can increase the competitiveness and vitality of an economy. in view of the major demographic challenges facing the eu in the future and the growing demand for labour, this multiannual programme encourages member states to pursue a flexible immigration policy in order to support the union's long-term economic growth and productivity. the advantage of the proposed provisions is that they provide better protection for workers from third countries than is currently possible under international conventions ratified by only some member states. i abstained from voting because it is not clear who, employer or employee, can make an application and from which country this application can be made, it was important to clarify this important issue. nor are the requirements of legal certainty and transparency in decision-making by national authorities emphasised. these decisions have important consequences for the lives of these people and for the member states and must therefore be taken in full transparency. decisions to reject an application shall be duly reasoned, transparent and objective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer rights, which aims to consolidate four existing community directives into a single legal act. i agree with the rapporteur that inconsistency in legislation is holding both consumers and businesses back from buying and selling in other countries. however, caution is needed as the nature of this area makes it rather difficult to fully harmonise consumer rights legislation and may reduce the level of consumer protection in some member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which will be returned to the ep's committees responsible for reconsideration. this directive aims to bring together eu legislation governing consumer rights and to ensure a high level of protection of consumer rights in all eu member states and to encourage businesses to provide services and sell goods in other member states. at present, obstacles to the smooth functioning of the market remain. businesses tend not to trade in other member states and consumers tend to conclude purchase contracts because of the different rules applicable to consumer contracts in the member states. the legislation in force until now has only set minimum requirements for the protection of consumers' rights, while member states have been able to apply more stringent measures, which has resulted in the maintenance of different legal regimes within the community. i think it is necessary to review this directive again and to strengthen its provisions. it is necessary to ensure that the same standards for the protection of consumers' rights are applied in all eu member states in order to avoid the current inconsistencies in the internal market, to strengthen consumer confidence in the internal market and to encourage businesses to trade in other member states.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the new rules, which are designed to update the current eu legislation on consumer rights, must cover all types of purchases: whether by telephone, online, in-store or on the doorstep. the amendments should encourage consumer confidence in buying from other countries and ensure a level playing field for businesses, thereby exploiting the full potential of the single market. on the other hand, the new rules must be balanced so as not to become an unbearable burden for smes. consumer protection is of paramount importance. only by taking a serious look at consumer protection levels could full harmonisation be achieved. it is also important that citizens know their rights. it's one of the problems in all of europe, but especially in my country. a eurobarometer survey commissioned by the ec shows that a large majority of lithuanians would like to know more about their rights as consumers. according to the survey, 2⁄3 of all lithuanians (66%) believe that the lithuanian legal system does not provide adequate protection against punishing companies that have cheated or defrauded them. the message is clear. we can't ignore that. the statistics also showed low trust in the government and the eu information offices less than 7% of all lithuanians trust these institutions to provide them with accurate information and advice on consumer rights. we can't leave it like this. the eu must act now.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which extends the mandate of the european network and information security agency (enisa) until the adoption of a new regulation on the updated operating rules and principles of the agency. enisa was established in 2004 for a period of five years to ensure a high and effective level of security of eu networks and information, thus contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market. the cyber-attacks in the member states in recent years have led to a review and re-formulation of the agency's mandate, with a view to creating a more flexible response capacity and enhancing the efficiency of the agency's work. one of the key objectives of the eu digital agenda is to give all eu citizens access to digital technologies, while ensuring trust and security on the internet. the modernisation of the european network and information security agency will bring together the latest information from all european countries and encourage the sharing of good practices, thereby making the european union and the member states better equipped to prevent, detect and respond to network and information security problems.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the conclusions of the presidency of the eu member state of the tallinn ministerial conference on the protection of critical information infrastructure state that in order to address new and long-term challenges in the future, the mandate of the agency (enisa) needs to be thoroughly reviewed and re-structured to allow for a greater focus on eu priorities and needs, to build a more flexible response capacity, to build capacity and expertise at european level, to support the efficiency and overall impact of the agency. in this way, enisa could continue to be of benefit to each member state and to the european union as a whole. the commission proposes a regulation extending the agency's current mandate for 18 months to allow sufficient time for discussions on the revision of the new provisions of the agency. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (ec) no 460/2004. the european network and information security agency (enisa) was established in march 2004 for a period of five years, in particular to ensure a high and effective level of network and information security in the european union and to shape a culture of network and information security for the benefit of citizens, consumers, businesses and public sector organisations in the european union, while contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market. regulation (ec) no 1007/20082 extended the mandate of enisa until march 2012 and extended the mandate of the agency until 31 december 2012.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. japan has been hit by a major natural disaster, coupled with a major nuclear accident, the scale of which is still beyond realistic estimation and which will have consequences for human health and the environment for decades to come. the european union immediately used its civil protection capabilities to coordinate humanitarian, technical and financial assistance in a timely manner. the accident should serve as a reference point for a comprehensive assessment and review of nuclear safety issues. nuclear energy is not only about operating the power plants themselves, but also about storing nuclear waste that lasts for centuries. the damage caused by the earthquake in japan to underground nuclear fuel storage facilities suggests that the prevailing view that landfilling is the safest way to dispose of waste is largely unfounded and that waste storage facilities could become a major source of danger to human health and the environment. i believe that it is necessary to start active discussions within the eu and at international level in order to ensure the highest level of nuclear power plants and waste storage already in operation and to seriously consider the benefits and assess the potential risks of nuclear power plants planned for construction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i would first of all like to express my sympathy and support for the people of japan following the catastrophic natural disaster and the nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power plant. in view of the devastation, japan and its regions need all the assistance and support they can get - humanitarian, financial and technical. i am pleased that the european union has immediately used civil protection measures to coordinate its emergency assistance. i would like to point out that the fukushima nuclear disaster is a cause for reflection on the situation and future of nuclear energy in europe. the european parliament should also consider and assess the risks of nuclear power stations at the external borders of the european union. all the member states of the european union should reflect and act on the nuclear power plants in their countries because of the potential radiation threat to europe as a whole. for example, germany closed down its nuclear reactors built before 1980 immediately after the events in japan and continues to discuss new alternatives to nuclear energy in the light of research and expertise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the earthquake and tsunami which struck japan and the pacific on 11 march this year, killing and leaving thousands of people missing and causing enormous material damage, triggered an extremely serious nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power plant, which, according to japanese prime minister naoto kan, poses a new threat to the country's worst crisis in 65 years, since the second world war. i would also like to express my sympathy and support to the people of japan following this catastrophic natural disaster. i am pleased that the ep also expresses its full support for and sincere condolences to the japanese people and the japanese government for the victims of this triple disaster, whose loss of life and material damage has yet to be fully assessed, and welcomes the unity, courage and determination of the japanese people and government in the face of this tragedy, and calls on the union and its member states to provide all necessary humanitarian, technical and financial assistance and support to japan and the affected regions as a matter of priority. it is good that the eu immediately used civil protection measures to coordinate its emergency response. but it is becoming clear that the disaster in japan forces us to fundamentally rethink the question of nuclear safety, we must fundamentally strengthen nuclear safety throughout the european union.
in writing. - japan has suffered before our eyes a catastrophe unlike any other country in the world. an earthquake, a tsunami, a nuclear accident - each of these disasters would be a great test, and all together they have placed an immeasurable burden on the country, on its people. the shutdown of the still-burning fukushima nuclear power plant will raise a number of questions: could some of the disasters have been avoided, and what safety improvements should other nuclear power plants make to prevent natural disasters from causing nuclear accidents? all countries using nuclear energy should check the safety of their nuclear power plants. and those planning to build new power plants should do a better job of analyzing the risks they pose. but at this moment, the european union must show solidarity with the ordinary people of japan. the resolution on the situation in japan is therefore urgently needed. we must provide all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial assistance to help people survive now and in the future to rebuild the devastated regions as soon as possible.
in writing. the economic situation of the european tourism sector has been difficult recently, and was further exacerbated by the eruption of a volcano in iceland last year, as the flight disruptions caused by volcanic ash have had a significant impact on travel in europe and have caused significant damage to airlines, travel agencies, tour operators and tourists. it is therefore essential to improve and redefine european tourism policy. in addition, the sector is increasingly facing difficulties and new challenges such as competition, demographic change, climate change, environmental constraints, seasonal distribution of tourists, which need to be addressed both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states. it is important to highlight that tourism is an important economic activity with a positive impact on economic growth and employment in europe, and that the legal basis for european tourism statistics needs to be updated and improved, and that the tourism sector should be strengthened at european union level through specific proposals and initiatives that complement member states' programmes. tourism is becoming increasingly important in the lives of european citizens, as the number of people travelling for business and leisure is constantly increasing. the sector is also concerned with cultural and natural heritage, as well as with the traditions and contemporary culture of the peoples of europe. it is therefore important to establish a new action programme to enhance the competitiveness of european tourism and to promote its sustainable growth.
i would like to thank eva-britt svensson for a very good report. and the real violations of women's rights and violence against women that the rapporteur mentions once again show that these are indeed violations of fundamental human rights that have no geographical, economic, cultural or social boundaries. the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme adopted last year calls on the commission to develop a strategy to combat violence against women as soon as possible, and i therefore urge the commission to take concrete action as soon as possible and to present such a strategy. gender-based violence also includes sexual exploitation, trafficking in human beings, forced marriage, and genital mutilation, and such violent crimes cause significant and irreparable damage to women's physical and mental health. i would therefore urge member states to ensure better training and good coordination between healthcare, social workers, police and judicial staff so that they can respond professionally to all cases of violence against women. i would like to thank commissioner malmström, although she is not present, for the funding and support to the ngo for the fight against violence against women, and i would also like to remind her that the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in violence and that funding in this area cannot be reduced.
i would like to congratulate my colleague and thank him for the good cooperation in preparing this important report. when joining the european union, three member states took on economically and socially difficult commitments: to close their nuclear power plants prematurely, without having the necessary financial capacity and expertise. the european union has indeed shown its solidarity by committing to provide the necessary financial support not only to finance the closure but also to contribute to the development of alternative energy projects and to the reduction of negative social impacts. i agree that there are still unresolved issues, such as the allocation of funds for specific closure operations, the complex administrative structures of the member states, which may not allow the allocated funding to be absorbed effectively. i believe that the european commission should play a greater coordinating role in ensuring the timely and safe closure of these nuclear reactors, the transparency of the use of funds, the promotion of alternative energy and the creation of new jobs in these countries.
it is good that the european council has been able to agree on some of the issues of major importance to europe. i would like to highlight the european semester and its importance as one of the priorities. i believe that priority should be given to the restoration of sound member state budgets, social justice and fiscal sustainability, which would allow for a faster recovery and stability of the member states' economies. it is essential that consolidation efforts are complemented by structural reforms, in particular in the european union in the implementation of the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the commission should also have a particularly important role to play, with a high degree of responsibility for monitoring the actions of the member states and the implementation of specific measures under the national stability and convergence programmes. in addition, there remain serious concerns about the approach of the european central bank, the council and the european commission to the situation of commercial banks, as well as the actions of foreign credit rating agencies.
i congratulate the rapporteur on a stern but in many places certainly correct report. i would like to emphasise and draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that lithuania, together with slovakia and bulgaria, has fulfilled the obligations laid down in its accession treaties and has closed old soviet nuclear reactors by the deadline. most of the projects related to the closure of ignalina have been implemented or are under implementation. of course, there are some challenges. once the new lithuanian government and the ignalina nuclear power plant board are in place, it is expected that those who did not fully organize the work will be held legally responsible, and the agreement on the construction of a spent fuel storage facility will be reviewed with the most favorable terms. i fully agree with the need for full transparency in the management of funds and the use of resources, thus ensuring nuclear safety. however, i would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of my colleagues to the planned experimental reactors on the european union's border with russia and belarus. that should be our focus.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. poland submitted an application to the commission on 27 april 2010 (application egf/2010/013 pl/podcarpackie machinery) and additional information was submitted by 4 august 2010. an application based on the intervention criterion referred to in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which requires the redundancies of at least 500 workers to be carried out within a nine-month period in enterprises operating in the same nace rev. 2 division in one nuts ii region or two adjacent regions of a member state, was submitted within the 10-week time limit (article 5 of the regulation). in its assessment, the commission finds that the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and recommends that the budgetary authority approve the application, which is why i voted in favour of this document as i believe that it will help to avoid negative social consequences. i also believe that other eu member states should make more active use of the opportunities offered by eu funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on migration flows caused by instability: the scope and role of eu foreign policy. the main drivers of migration are political, social and economic instability, insecurity, political persecution and authoritarian regimes, which leave affected communities without any viable options in their homeland and income, thus depriving them of the right to choose to emigrate or to remain, and placing individuals in constant danger of their lives and therefore their only remaining option to migrate. recent dramatic events in egypt and other countries in north africa and the middle east have clearly increased the flow of legal and illegal migration to europe. the european union must therefore be prepared to withstand waves of migration. it can only do so by having an effective and smart migration policy, similar to the policies that are in place in canada, australia or new zealand. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should be urged to ensure that any readmission agreement signed between the eu and its member states fully respects the principle of human rights and non-refoulement and does not endanger persons in need of international protection. in this way, the eu will once again demonstrate that values and respect for human rights are paramount and undeniable, and that asylum seekers will feel safe and respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. recent developments in egypt and other countries in north africa and the middle east have increased legal and illegal migration flows to europe. the member states of the european union face forced migration of people as a result of economic failures, impoverishment, human rights violations, environmental degradation, the growing gap between rich and poor countries, civil wars and political persecution. managing migration flows is a major challenge for the european union, which must act to develop a common migration policy that can contribute to reducing illegal immigration. i agree that it is necessary to take preventive measures by including human rights clauses in all eu bilateral trade agreements and to consider the application of appropriate sanctions to countries that do not comply with such clauses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because migration is a particularly pressing and recent issue, with events in north africa forcing the european union, as a neighbouring region, to accept massive flows of migrants. the report highlights the many factors that contribute to the flow of migration, such as political, social, economic instability and even climate change, which are still not taken into account in the analysis of the causes of mass migration. for all these reasons, it is stressed that the eu needs a more effective migration policy, which should be complemented by foreign policy instruments. these measures would help to address the causes of instability in countries of origin, which force people to emigrate en masse to more stable neighbouring regions. the communication also calls on the commission to develop proposals for legal migration that would be easier to manage and could promote economic and social progress in both host, transit and origin countries. it is claimed that the most serious human rights violations, as well as criminal activities that often turn into a business for those who organise them, are linked to illegal migration. finally, the need to assess the demographic situation of the eu itself is emphasised in order to estimate how many people europe can take in.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because migration flows caused by instability are a challenge for the eu. prisons, armed conflicts, tensions between ethnic groups, persistent human rights violations such as religious persecution, natural disasters, and the lack of economic and democratic structures are the main causes of this type of migration. this phenomenon is of particular concern because it may create or increase tensions not only between the countries of origin and destination but also between the countries of origin and transit. to address this challenge effectively, the eu must adopt a policy of prevention, using the most appropriate foreign policy instruments to address directly the causes of instability, so that emigration becomes an opportunity rather than a necessity. it is therefore necessary to initiate a debate in order to better understand all aspects of migration phenomena and their structural causes. this would encourage the eu to establish a clear and effective policy on migration flows from countries of origin and transit and to decide how and how much to invest in these countries in order to compensate for their internal demographic and social tensions and thus contribute to the creation of conditions for stability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, following the unrest in the arab countries, which has seen a particularly high level of migration flows, it is essential that a common migration policy is in place across the eu. given that migration cannot be stopped, foreign policy has a special role to play in this area. the countries on the eu's external borders are most affected by the increased migration flows. we therefore need to make every effort to develop a common eu migration policy at eu level in order to optimally manage and control migration flows. only by working together will the economies of the countries receiving the largest flows of migrants be protected from the negative effects of the crisis, as will the sustainability of labour markets and the prospects for development. this will be an effective tool to prevent illegal migration, organised crime and trafficking in human beings. the eu must make every effort to promote legal migration and effectively combat illegal migration. it is essential that the legal migration system is designed to meet the needs of the european labour market, taking into account the capacity of each member state to receive and integrate migrants. legal migrants in the european union must have the same rights and obligations as other workers. it is also essential to reduce the outflow of knowledge and skilled professionals in each country. this requires support for return programmes, encouraging exchange migration, regulating recruitment practices, and supporting skills development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas, as women in modern society play a multifaceted role, taking into account their individual family and professional responsibilities, thus making a major contribution to progress and innovation at all levels of society and to improving the quality of life, particularly in rural areas. unfortunately, the number of women in rural areas is decreasing. therefore, in order to ensure a stable situation for the agricultural population and to implement rural development policy, more attention needs to be paid to the creation of innovative and sustainable living and working conditions in rural areas. i agree with the rapporteur that women's entrepreneurship and initiative should be promoted, in particular women's ownership rights, women's entrepreneurial networks and the financial sector conditions to facilitate access to investment and credit for women entrepreneurs in rural areas, thus giving them more opportunities to operate in the market and develop sustainable businesses. it is also important to support political efforts to strengthen the role of women in agriculture and to provide them with more opportunities to engage in agricultural activities. to encourage women to set up in rural areas and to take up activities in the agricultural sector, they need to have better access to land and credit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that regional development is becoming a particularly pressing issue today, when changing society and social structures, values and increasing individualisation are making rural areas less habitable. i fully agree that one of the important tools to reverse this emerging trend towards urbanisation is the creation of adequate living and working conditions in rural areas. experience shows that the quality of life and economic power in rural areas are closely linked to women and their role in farming. it is therefore essential to take the measures proposed in the report to enable women to pursue their life plans, to be economically independent and to cope with family tasks as successfully as they can in cities today. the report mentions as such measures the continued provision and expansion of women's education, consultation on specific agricultural issues, the continuity of eu support for agriculture and business in rural areas, the development of the necessary infrastructure, including it infrastructure, the possibility of taking advantage of early retirement, and many others.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it is very important to highlight the role of women in farms and rural areas and, in particular, to take account of its multifaceted nature. the main objective of eu rural policy is to achieve a level playing field in all regions and to avoid the development of densely populated urban areas in a one-sided way, so that women and men have the prospect of staying and living successfully in rural areas as well. to ensure that all generations of women remain in rural areas, or are encouraged to do so, support policies need to take greater account of their needs and conditions than in the past. this can only be done in modern society by means of support services, supply agencies and institutions that are affordable and accessible in the regions. one of the main strategies for european support should be to maintain and develop this support structure in a way that is appropriate for women. thus, already in the planning of measures such as the construction of a nursery, the establishment of an outpatient care centre or the development of public transport, new concepts need to be identified and women of all generations need to be included in the decision-making process. school, vocational and academic education and further training continue to be important factors in ensuring the quality of life and work in rural areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to increase the role of women in the agricultural sector and improve their situation in rural areas by providing more social guarantees and promoting employment and entrepreneurship. first of all, we must make every effort to create an effective social security system that allows for early retirement and adequate maternity benefits. to facilitate the promotion of entrepreneurship, all rural areas need to be equipped with the latest it infrastructure. the efficient provision of broadband services is one of the key factors driving the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. we must also make every effort to preserve rural communities and to create opportunities for reconciling family and professional life. in this context, it is necessary to ensure that people living in rural areas have access to high-quality healthcare, education, childcare and other services to meet their daily needs, which will improve their living conditions and reduce social exclusion. member states, using the structural funds, are to develop and implement initiatives to promote women's participation in the labour market, reduce social inequalities and address transport infrastructure problems. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's rural development policy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of eu funds to decommission nuclear power stations in the new member states. it is a very important document for lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia in their work to close nuclear power plants. lithuania is concerned about the delay in implementing key waste infrastructure projects, which is hampering the timely and efficient absorption of eu funds. it should be noted that the decommissioning costs are still high and the national funds are insufficient: the state decommissioning fund for the ignalina nuclear power plant has so far accumulated just over eur 100 million (although the technical decommissioning costs alone could range from eur 987 million to eur 1 300 million). the european parliament therefore calls on the eu member states to take the necessary measures in this regard. the closure of nuclear power plants is a very complex process. the state has insufficient experience to anticipate all the works in time and to implement them effectively. the european parliament adopted this resolution in good time, encouraging lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia and all eu member states to implement the closure of nuclear power plants as effectively as possible. this is a very important work to which the european parliament will continue to pay close attention.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. with their accession to the european union, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria have made politically and economically complex commitments to close down their operating nuclear power plants, and the european union has committed to providing the necessary financial support for closure, construction and storage of nuclear waste and the development of energy projects. i believe that such a european union solidarity concept can be effective in mitigating the negative economic consequences of early closure in the energy sector, but there are still a number of important issues that remain unresolved. the question of the allocation of funding is not entirely clear, as it is already known that the funding currently allocated will not be sufficient to carry out the decommissioning works in a timely and proper manner. there is a risk that the decommissioning of nuclear power plants will be delayed due to lack of financial resources and may pose a threat to the environment and human health. detailed plans for decommissioning programmes have not yet been finalised, and therefore there is a lack of data on calendar schedules, the cost of specific projects and their sources of funding. i agree that the european commission needs to play a greater coordinating role with these three countries in order to agree on the level of funding for the submission of detailed plans, the timely completion of the work. the commission should also explore possible ways to harmonise the decommissioning financing arrangements in the eu, taking into account the strategies applied by the member states, their national administrative structures and simplify the actual procedures for administering the funds in a way that does not compromise the safety and security of decommissioning.
in writing. − as is known, old soviet nuclear reactors were operating in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, which the international community has determined cannot be upgraded to meet minimum safety standards at economically acceptable costs. recognising the enormous financial burden of early shutdowns, and acting in solidarity, the eu has in turn committed to provide the appropriate additional financial support to bring these reactors to a standstill by the end of 2013. however, there is concern that major waste management infrastructure projects (spent fuel storage and waste repository project) are being implemented with significant delays. the possibility of inactivity is almost exhausted and delays may start to interfere with the entire decommissioning plan and increase costs accordingly. the commission should communicate the results of the reassessment of the project timetable. a large part of the funds has been allocated to energy projects, but there is still a large need for decommissioning and insufficient national funding: the funds accumulated so far in the state ignalina nuclear decommissioning fund are insufficient. the cost of technical decommissioning could range from eur 987 million to eur 1 300 million. member states shall take appropriate measures in this regard. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste in the transport of dangerous goods. this could be a new challenge for the eu, posing a real threat to our human health and the environment in the future.
in writing. − i support this resolution on the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of eu funds for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. in particular, efforts should be made to ensure that all decommissioning operations are carried out in a timely manner with the proper implementation of all necessary safety measures and with the avoidance of any minimal risk to human health and the environment. if we are to decommission ignalina and other nuclear power plants, all the financial resources allocated to this process must be used for their intended purpose in accordance with the principles of transparency and efficiency. the national management authorities shall complete the detailed decommissioning plans as soon as possible. i believe that the results of the audit carried out by the european court of auditors will show the objectives of the use of funds and their effectiveness. we must make every effort to ensure that the dismantling and decommissioning of waste starts before 2013. i think it is appropriate to impose an obligation on the commission to submit a detailed financing plan to the european parliament and to establish the responsibility for the use of european union aid. given the lack of sufficient planned amounts in the national decommissioning funds, it is appropriate to include new lines of action in the strategies and plans developed and to provide for additional eu funds accordingly.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events in japan last month and the concerns about the safety of the fukushima plant have triggered a major debate on nuclear power plants. it is very important that these discussions take place many lithuanians still have vivid memories of the chernobyl tragedy. the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant was one of the conditions for eu membership, but it was very painful. the eu provided €837 million in assistance to lithuania to deal with the consequences of the closure of the nuclear power plant in 2007-13. however, it is not enough to simply obtain eu funding for the closure of the reactor. a safe decommissioning is a long journey and the eu must support lithuania along the way. this aid should cover comprehensive assistance for the management of radioactive and hazardous waste. as the rapporteur states, full eu support is important in order to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant. the closure of the nuclear power plant has taken away jobs from many lithuanians and has damaged our economy. the eu must provide more support for projects in the energy sector to mitigate the material consequences of the closure of the ignalina power plant. this could include promoting the renewal of electricity capacity and energy efficiency measures.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the czech republic submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of a number of redundancies (all redundancies) of 634 workers in the company unilever čr, spol. s.r.o., active in the retail trade (food products), on 24 march 2010 and supplemented it with further information up to 20 september 2010. this application complies with the requirements for financial support. the commission therefore proposes to allocate an amount of eur 323 820. i therefore agreed that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance for the application submitted by the czech republic. i also believe that other eu member states should make more active use of the opportunities offered by eu funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on dual-use items and technologies, i.e. goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. export controls on dual-use items are essential to prevent the proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. it is therefore essential to make the eu's export regime for dual-use goods more democratic and transparent, while at the same time being sufficiently rigorous. currently, the requirements for the export of dual-use items and technologies vary in severity across the eu member states. i believe that the eu should aim to apply the strictest export regime applicable to all member states to each object. the commission should establish an effective system in this area to help collect reliable data on the end-use of dual-use items exported from the union.
in writing. − export controls on dual-use goods (civil and military) are crucial to preventing the proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. for 15 years, the eu has been strengthening export controls on dual-use goods, based on preventive measures, export licensing requirements and customs registration procedures. however, in the light of continuous technological developments and new threats, it is necessary to keep the lists of controlled dual-use items up to date, in line with the similar lists used under the main international export control regimes. the main task of these international export control regimes is to keep up to date the lists of goods whose exports need to be controlled. until now, these lists have been transposed into eu law almost automatically, without the involvement of the european parliament, but since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the ep's consent is also required. i supported this report and the european parliament's proposals to ensure a more democratic and transparent eu export regime for dual-use goods and a stronger role for the commission in assessing the implementation of this regulation in the member states.
in writing. − chemical and radioactive materials, nuclear centrifuges, hardware and software and their components are used for both civilian and military purposes. in the wrong hands, these items could become tools of torture or weapons of mass destruction. i voted in favour of this document because it proposes to improve the export control regime for dual-use items and technology, i.e. to strengthen the control of exports of dual-use goods. this document also extends the list of goods for which an authorisation is required and the movement of exports of those goods is to be notified.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on officially supported export credits. export credits are an important tool to support eu businesses. i agree that the promotion of medium and long-term export credits is a powerful instrument which has not yet been fully exploited by all member states and should therefore be encouraged. export credits can be used to finance projects of a non-commercial nature that would otherwise have limited access to capital, and to help create jobs. however, it should be noted that there is currently insufficient transparency to identify what export credit agencies are financing or have financed in the past. the lack of transparency results in high costs and delays and creates the conditions for bribery and corruption. therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal to require member states to provide the commission with annual reports on the activities of their export credit agencies in relation to risk assessment and publication of off-balance-sheet measures and to provide for an obligation to report on social and environmental risk assessments.
in writing. − many industrialised countries, including all eu member states, have at least one officially supported export credit agency, which together constitute the world's largest source of official financial support for private sector projects. the amount of export credit guarantees granted by the eu member states' export credit agencies alone in 2004-2009 amounts to eur 468 billion. export credit agencies facilitate legitimate trade where the private capital market is weak and their capacity to adapt to risk is much higher than that of private entities, as they do not have to pay taxes and make profits and have a much greater margin of manoeuvre than private banks to avoid incurring losses on the credits granted. however, for the same reason, export credit agencies can cause significant distortions of trade if their financial operations are not regulated by common rules. while export credit agencies are an important tool to support the activities and investments of european companies, it is necessary to ensure that companies carry out sound financial activities and do not require taxpayer assistance to refinance their operations. i supported this report and the requirement to report annually to the european commission and the european parliament because there is currently very little data on what such agencies finance or have financed in the past, and some national export credit agencies do not even report regularly on the overall state of their annual operations, which is contrary to the principle of transparency.
in writing. − as you know, it is impossible to understand what export credit agencies are financing or have financed in the past. some national export credit agencies did not even report regularly on the overall state of their annual operations. many other agencies do not provide non-aggregated data on lending by sector or geographical distribution. this is contrary to the transparency requirements of the 2005 oecd agreement, to which all eu member states are parties and which will now be transposed into eu law. the oecd agreement does not contain any requirements to ensure the fair determination of premiums, as it does not provide for any transparency requirements or minimum standards for the assessment of social and environmental risks. it is proposed to introduce a procedure for transparency requirements relating to risk assessment and publication of off-balance-sheet items and to provide for an obligation to report on social and environmental risk assessments, and to require member states to provide the commission with annual reports on the activities of their export credit agencies relating to the items specified. i therefore voted in favour of this document because it will set more standards for transparency and for assessing social and environmental risks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the new eu policy programme to combat violence against women. violence against women is a global and european problem. although the issue of violence against women has been discussed for decades, the international community has not succeeded in putting an end to this particularly harmful form of crime. it is therefore essential to continue to make every effort at eu level to reduce as far as possible violence against women and to facilitate its prevention, the prosecution of offenders and the protection of victims. to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to harmonise criminal law across the eu and to establish a legal framework to effectively punish perpetrators and protect victims. it is also very important in the fight against trafficking in human beings. forced marriage is another form of gender-based violence that violates the individual's right to self-determination. it is important that young women be protected from such coercive relationships. honor-related violence is a key issue in these circumstances. in order to prevent any violence against women, it is necessary to spread information about gender equality, to actively inform the public, especially those layers where the relationship between men and women is based on traditions and rituals.
in writing. −violence against women in all its forms remains a major global and european problem. it is important to legalise in the eu the full and consistent protection of women's inviolability by law. some countries still do not have a law that criminalizes violence against women in the home. domestic violence should not be treated as a personal matter. member states must ensure that judicial authorities give priority to prosecution of acts of domestic violence and that perpetrators of such offences are prosecuted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to put an end to violence against women as soon as possible. i would like to point out that one in ten women in europe has experienced violence, and this is one of the most common causes of death among women. although the issue of violence against women has been discussed for decades, it is painful to see that we are still failing to protect women from violence. it is therefore essential that the european commission develops a common directive on combating and combating all forms of violence against women, whether physical, sexual or psychological. gender-based violence includes sexual exploitation, trafficking in human beings, forced marriage, genital mutilation and other violations. such violent crimes have a significant impact and irreversible damage to the physical and mental health of women and member states should therefore ensure better healthcare for victims of violence. i would also like to urge commissioner cecilia malmström, responsible for home affairs, not to reduce financial support to non-governmental organisations (ngos) fighting violence against women. the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in violence and there is no reason to reduce funding in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because we must put an end to all violations of women's rights and all violence against women. and i believe that, in line with the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme adopted last year, the commission should draw up a strategy to combat violence against women as soon as possible. in the meantime, member states must ensure that healthcare, social workers, the police, the courts and other institutions are better able to respond in a timely and professional manner to all cases of violence against women.
president of the european commission. − let me also start by conveying, on behalf of the commission, our fullest admiration, respect and solidarity with the japanese people. i sent a personal message to prime minister kan immediately after this catastrophic event. i spoke with him again yesterday over the phone to have the latest information on the situation and he told me how grateful he was for the european union’s solidarity. regarding the trade issue, last year’s european union-japan summit agreed to examine the options for how to best to improve our relations. one of the options on the economic side is the possibility of a european union-japan fda. this option will require a considerable degree of ambition on both sides and a willingness to tackle, inter alia, non-tariff measures and the removal of obstacles that hamper european union companies’ access to japan’s market for public procurement. there have been consistent demands from the european union side in discussions with japan. i am happy that the european council has now clarified its position. yesterday i reaffirmed to the prime minister of japan that we are ready to work with japan, provided it addresses these matters constructively. he promised me that it would do so in a constructive way, addressing matters of concern also to the european side.
president of the commission. − in fact the european council made the decision to try to promote the highest possible standards, not only in europe but with our partners. for instance, commissioner oettinger has already been in contact with russian partners. russia and the ukraine said they were interested in working with us on that matter. we are also trying to see if we can achieve the same level of cooperation with switzerland and also, although it is not so advanced, with turkey and armenia. yesterday, in my phone call with the prime minister of japan, he told me that he also wants to cooperate with us, and also in the international efforts to be made in the g8 and the g20, to achieve higher levels of nuclear safety in the world. we now have the conditions to make a real effort, not only at european level – that is now guaranteed – but also globally, working with the international atomic energy agency and other relevant international bodies.
president of the commission. − in the response to this crisis, i am proud that the commission, represented by kristalina georgieva, who is here with us, was the first to send a high-level delegation to japan after the terrible events there. i can assure you that japan very much appreciated that gesture. we have provided both political and moral support to japan: our system has been working in an efficient manner. in fact, the japanese authorities were the first to ask us to coordinate the action of member states because they preferred coordinated, rather than bilateral, support from the different member states. even if japan is a very rich country which is very able to face these kinds of crises, as a matter of solidarity we are providing humanitarian aid of eur 15 million. of this, eur 10 million comes from the european union budget, arranged by the commission, the remaining eur 5 million or so comes from the member states. we are basically satisfied with the coordination efforts in humanitarian terms, but it is certain that we can always improve if the member states are ready to accept a coordinated and coherent approach with regard to civil protection and crisis response.
mr president, the march european council confirmed the eu’s role as a promoter of the highest nuclear safety standards worldwide and in the eu neighbourhood. at least two new nuclear projects at the eu’s external border raise serious concern, owing to a lack of transparency and of consultation with the countries affected. new npps containing experimental reactors will be located in the kaliningrad enclave in between two member states and only 23 kilometres away from the eastern eu border in belarus. the eu, in cooperation with the relevant international bodies, should ensure that the developers comply with the highest nuclear safety and environmental standards right from the beginning of the development stage and should allow international nuclear experts to assess both projects, especially the site selection criteria. the eu could effectively prevent unsafe nuclear development by refusing to contract energy that will be produced in unclean nuclear power plant stations. what role does the commission see in preventing unsafe nuclear development at the eu’s external borders? what measures could it take?
in view of the current difficult financial, economic and social situation in the european union, parliament's budgetary resources should also be used prudently and efficiently. it is proposed that the overall expenditure of the european parliament in 2012 should increase by 2,3%, which is below the current inflation rate. this is indeed a positive development, but in the future parliament must make even more effective savings and strengthen management and control procedures. i agree with the rapporteur that there should be a long-term review of the european parliament's budget and thus reduce expenditure. parliament's services must make greater efforts to modernise and streamline administration, reduce dependence on external services, and apply strict human resource management. i believe that these measures would make it possible to increase the efficiency of the use of european union funds, thereby saving european taxpayers' money and reducing the current level of parliament's expenditure.
i would like to thank my colleague, catalin ivan, for her excellent work on this important report. the money of the european union's taxpayers must be used properly and efficiently. to this end, it is necessary to ensure that member states have effective control mechanisms and adequate fraud detection capabilities. it is important that the commission and olaf receive high-quality, accurate, reliable and comparable information on irregularities and fraud. the current level of recovery is very low and intolerable. it is therefore necessary to take action to recover all misused european union funds. one of the key issues in this fight is that the facts presented in parliament's reports and in the commission's annual reports on the protection of the interests of the european union receive the proper attention from the council and the member states and that olaf can take all the necessary measures to strengthen the fight against fraud in this area.
member of the commission. − firstly, on the effectiveness of humanitarian assistance from the beginning, from the outset of the crisis, the most dramatic humanitarian impact so far can be split into three parts. first, the outflow of migrant workers into tunisia, egypt, algeria and niger – there the commission and the member states have been very effective. we have mobilised both air and sea deployment of member states assets so we can take people home, and a humanitarian injection into the international organisation for migration and the un organisation for refugees so that they can help with a huge amount of people – 420 000 people – fleeing libya. second, in the eastern part of libya to which we have access, we have provided support for medical treatment as well as for the prepositioning of food supplies. this is not yet a food crisis, but this is a country that imports 90% of its food, so we must be ready. there we also are helping sub-saharan africans, in particular chadians, who found themselves in a very difficult position because of the risk to their safety, being perceived to be mercenaries, being perceived to be fighters, when of course many of them are not. helping them to get to safety, mostly in egypt, has also been a priority. third, we know that in gaddafi-controlled areas there are humanitarian needs but we are restricted in getting there. we have set aside eur 9 million even when conditions allow for us to be mobilised. we actually gave instructions to the world food programme as well as to other humanitarian organisations, to be ready to help. on the second part of your question, access to markets, this is at the heart of the southern mediterranean initiative which i outlined. it is about making sure that we can offer a prospect of a better future for jobs and prosperity to these countries. there we are putting a very strong emphasis indeed on trade, trade with europe, but also trade among the countries of the mediterranean.
mr commissar, the situation in north africa has indeed presented the european union with major challenges. the financial times quoted a commissioner as saying that the european union had successfully evacuated its citizens from libya. at the same time, however, the country was left without medical care professionals, most of whom were bulgarian. as you mentioned, the european union is providing a variety of humanitarian aid, but at the same time we are facing another unforeseen circumstance, because we have actually left this country without the necessary medical aid. how do you plan to handle this matter?
member of the commission. − let me first say that the evacuation of european citizens has been very successful. we managed to achieve coordination between our member states and deployed the monitoring and information centre to provide a platform for this coordination. as a result, we got the vast majority of our citizens out of libya in the fastest and safest manner. by the time this massive evacuation was completed, there were only around 200 people left who wanted to be evacuated. right now — as we speak — some of them have been safely evacuated by a russian aircraft. on the question of medical services, as we evacuated european citizens the law of unintended consequences kicked in, because some of these european citizens had been providing medical services as part of the libyan health service. many nurses were evacuated, though not so many doctors. we are now making every possible effort to enable humanitarian organisations that specialise in medical care to provide access to such care for libyans and third-country nationals in libya. once again, the critical importance of gaddafi allowing humanitarian organisations to operate in the western part of libya cannot be over-emphasised. unfortunately this has not yet happened. we have a team of our own experts in the eastern part of the country. they have returned from an assessment mission and reported that, although there are increasing numbers of wounded people in need of medical care, the medical supplies and support — including personnel — that the intentional community is providing are broadly sufficient in the eastern part of libya. that is not the case, however, in cities like misrata and other areas controlled by gaddafi. as you probably know, attempts are now being made to send in medical ships by sea as a means of increasing the availability of medical treatment.
member of the commission. − dear members of the parliament, according to the treaty the competence for addressing these issues lies with the member states. the european union carries out actions to support, to coordinate or supplement member states actions, to protect and improve human health. having said this, the commission believes that all citizens across the union should have universal access to high quality care. the commission has therefore launched a number of initiatives in this regard and i am happy to answer the question by the honourable member of parliament. in 2009. the commission adopted a communication on ‘solidarity and health: reducing health inequalities in the european union’ and this communication stresses the need to bridge inequalities in health. last december, the commission services further launched a joint action with 14 member states on reducing health inequalities in the framework of the health programme. universal access to high quality care is also a focus of the open method of coordination on health and long term care. in this context member states have agreed specific objectives concerning health care systems, access to health care, quality of health and sustainability of health care policies. in addition with the new directive on patients’ rights in cross-border health care, eu patients will have the opportunity to get information on treatments that are available abroad and will be able to seek possible reimbursement of costs. finally, the health sector is one of the funding areas under the current cohesion policy. measures financed in this context, such as modernisation of hospital infrastructure, purchase of medical equipment or the training of medical staff can help improve citizens’ access to healthcare, particularly in the poorest regions.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for the very detailed answer, but there is one question that my constituents often ask me when it comes to people with complex illnesses. in fact, the primary issue is nursing, but most of the nursing is done by their relatives. carers are no longer able to participate fully in the labour market and their situation is very uncertain. do you not think that, in addition to the standardisation of healthcare, it is necessary to regulate this issue in order to protect the social security of those who provide care?
member of the commission. − madam president, i think our aim has to be to keep things as simple as possible for our stakeholders and to ensure – insofar as we can – that beneficiaries can directly apply their usual cost accounting practices for personnel costs, avoiding the need to implement a parallel accounting system as they had to up to now. that obviously brings complexity and a risk of errors. at the end of the day, we accept – i think everyone has to accept – that researchers are not interested in being involved in the misuse of eu funding. they are rather interested in the real, pure basic research that they do, which can lead on to the wonderful innovations that we can see in countries, not just throughout europe but indeed throughout the world. so we make things as uncomplicated as possible, as simple as possible, for stakeholders.
member of the commission. − the commission is committed to facilitating the access to financing of small and medium sized enterprises in eu research and innovation programmes and to helping them ultimately bring the fruits of their innovation to market. this is a priority for the commission, as stated in the communication on innovation union adopted on 6 october last, in the small business act for europe adopted in june 2008 and in the review of the small business act adopted on 23 february this year. in addition, the green paper ‘from challenges to opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding’, identified the key questions for future eu research and innovation support, including a number of specific questions on how to better meet the needs of smes. an overall aim of the common strategic framework is to make participation in eu programmes more simple and attractive, in particular for smes. for the future, important elements to consider in this context are a single entry point with common it platforms, more standardised rules, a streamlined set of funding instruments that cover the full innovation chain, and simpler and more consistent procedures for receiving funding. following the green paper consultation, the commission will bring forward its legislative proposals for the common strategic framework by the end of this year. we have already introduced in the latest seventh framework programme (fp7) work programmes – a number of measures specifically targeting smes, including earmarked budgets. the budgetary share of smes is forecast to grow from the current 14.3 % to over the 15 % target foreseen in the legislation. smes need support on their doorstep. easier access to fp7 is provided by the enterprise europe network, a partnership between the commission and nearly 600 business organisations such as chambers of commerce of industry, chambers of crafts, innovation agencies and regional development agencies. more precisely, based on agreed guidelines, this network, together and in cooperation with the national contact points of fp7, assists smes by providing support for awareness raising, capacity building for participation in the framework programme, engaging new smes in the proposals, partner search, joint actions addressed to smes and conducting consultations on inclusion of sme-related call topics in work programmes. several hundred smes were able to submit fp7 proposals with the support of the network.
madam president, smes encounter many difficulties in accessing eu funds for research and development. either they do not obtain a loan to ensure the co-financing part, or the red tape is too much of a burden for them. does the commission have any plans to elaborate a common and simple set of rules in order to increase the participation of smes in eu research programmes? does the commission intend to allocate, let us say, about 30% of eu research funds just for smes?
the importance of the role of european political parties is also enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, which aims to create an effective european political area. our politicians' job is to engage their citizens in the european union, to make it more understandable and accessible, and to involve them in decision-making. however, this requires appropriate, clear and uniform regulation of the activities of european political parties and european political foundations and the democratic functioning of such parties. as a source of democracy, these political parties should enjoy a uniform legal and fiscal status, which would allow for a better understanding of parties and better representation of european citizens. it is of particular importance that the formation of the internal management bodies of such political parties be based on transparent principles, which allow for the democratic election of all party bodies and the democratic decision-making processes.
in writing. the debate on how to strengthen the role of european political parties in developing democracy in europe and shaping public opinion is timely. although parliament is gaining more and more power, its democratic deficit is not being reduced by the declining participation of citizens in the european elections. political parties at european level are the main instruments of parliamentary democracy, helping to shape european political awareness, to stimulate interest in eu issues and to express the will of the citizens of the union. i therefore fully support and agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to consolidate the position of political parties at european level and to provide them with a clear and uniform legal status and funding model. such parties should not remain strangers. at present, the role of european political parties in the public sphere is rather limited. they are only organisations that link national parties, not organisations that directly contact voters. the new legal status of such parties in the european union would help to ensure organisational unity and enable them to play their role more effectively. i would like to stress that we must continue to work towards a secure and transparent environment for party financing. the financing of political parties should not be based solely on a grant scheme, but should also encourage own-funding, which is a sign of the viability of political parties.
in writing. − i have approved this communication confirming the council's position on draft amending budget no 1/2011 without amendments. this amending budget aims to use eur 182,4 million of commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund to mitigate the consequences of floods caused by heavy rains in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania. i believe that, in general, the eu solidarity fund should be used as soon as possible after a natural disaster and that applications for financial assistance must be processed efficiently and quickly in order to provide urgent financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. − i have agreed to the report and the rapporteur's proposal to approve the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2011 without amendments, as these countries, namely poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, croatia and romania, are to receive financial assistance and the decision on its granting cannot be delayed any further.
in writing. - i have approved this communication granting financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund to poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania. the interinstitutional agreement provides for the possibility to use the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. i believe that, in general, the eu solidarity fund should be used as soon as possible after a natural disaster and that applications for financial assistance must be processed efficiently and quickly in order to provide urgent financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the commission, in its proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (com (2011) 0010), informed parliament that, following the requests for assistance from poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, romania and the candidate country croatia in relation to the floods in may, july and june 2010, it proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund. the decision on the approval of this measure, which the committee on budgets envisages adopting as soon as possible, would avoid unnecessary delays. it should be noted that the committee on regional development also has no objection to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund on the basis of a proposal from the commission and in accordance with the rules of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 and council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, and to the distribution of an amount of eur 182 388 893 to the countries concerned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) often involves bilateral fisheries agreements between the ec and third countries, known as fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) since 2004, and is an important external aspect of this policy. the agreements with the african and pacific countries provide for a substantial part of the eu's financial contribution to be devoted to supporting this particular area of national fisheries policy, which is based on the principle of sustainability and the sound management of fisheries resources. partnership agreements therefore commit to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing wherever eu vessels fish, and are based on a thorough assessment of existing stocks, and aim to ensure that fishing opportunities are based on sound scientific advice and that any threat of depletion of local stocks is eliminated. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty gave parliament increased powers in relation to fisheries partnership agreements: article 218 (6) (a) of the eu treaty now requires parliament's prior consent before an agreement can be concluded, instead of the previously existing simple consultation procedure. i believe that this proposed new protocol on the fisheries partnership agreement with the union of the comoros is of fundamental benefit to both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because, until now, all disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements have been settled by diplomatic means alone. in practice, this has not been effective and there have been cases where disputes could not be resolved because they could easily have been blocked by the party in breach of the agreement. the extension of free trade agreements between the euro-mediterranean countries can help to ensure economic and political stability in this important region and to create a common space of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. in addition, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and predictability of bilateral trade links and contribute to the establishment of a euro-mediterranean (euromed) free trade area. unresolved conflicts have a negative impact not only on the business community but also on end-users on both coasts of the mediterranean. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, foreign direct investment has become part of the eu's trade policy and thus falls within the union's exclusive competence. during this period, foreign direct investment plays an important role in ensuring the economic well-being of countries and regions. a well-functioning and effective dispute resolution mechanism will help to resolve disputes in this area as well.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european neighbourhood policy progressively opens up the possibility for partner countries to participate in certain union programmes and agencies. it is one of a number of measures designed to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood. the european council of june 2007 reiterated the particular importance of the european neighbourhood policy and this protocol will allow ukraine to participate in important eu programmes and to benefit from the eu's good practices in contributing to the development of democratic processes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the european parliament's endorsement of the draft council decision on the basis of which the additional protocol to the eu-ukraine partnership and cooperation agreement will be concluded. the protocol will allow ukraine to participate in european union programmes relating to enterprise and entrepreneurship, energy and information and communication technologies. under this agreement, ukraine will make a financial contribution to the general budget of the eu under the programmes in which it wishes to participate, and the eu will in turn ensure the financial control and audit of these programmes by the eu institutions. i am the vice-chair of the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee and i am convinced that the conclusion of this protocol will provide ukraine with more opportunities to bring its policy in the above areas closer to the eu's policy, standards and norms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european parliament's endorsement of the draft council decision on the basis of which the additional protocol to the eu-ukraine partnership and cooperation agreement will be concluded. ukraine will be given the opportunity to participate in eu programmes related to enterprise and entrepreneurship, energy and information and communication technologies. ukraine will have to contribute financially to the general budget of the eu under the programmes in which it wishes to participate, and the eu will in turn ensure the financial control and audit of these programmes by the eu institutions. such a policy of partnership and cooperation will provide ukraine with greater opportunities to align its policies with those of the eu in these areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation to allow ukraine to participate in current and future eu programmes, for example in the fields of entrepreneurship, energy, technology, communications. this agreement will accelerate ukraine's public administration reforms and bring the country's various economic sectors closer to eu law, standards and good practice. in exchange for its financial contribution to the programmes, ukraine will have the right to participate as an observer in the eu programme coordination committees. the programme initiatives proposed by ukrainians will be taken into account in the same way as those of eu countries. all this will allow ukraine to move closer to the eu, step by step.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the 18th round of the ukraine-eu negotiations on the signing of the association agreement is taking place in brussels this week. the process has gone on too long. it is time to sign the agreement, as both ukraine and the eu have an interest in it. ukraine, with a population of 46 million, needs stability in the region. in recent years, ukraine has become a political football field. it must not be forced to choose between russia and the west. it is important for eu countries, and lithuania in particular, to actively pursue closer cooperation with their eastern neighbours, even if some differences remain. the successful conclusion of the association agreement would stimulate modernisation and reform in ukraine and bring it closer to eu standards. as regards the negotiations on a free trade area, we must seek agreements on tariff proposals, energy taxation procedures and sustainable development. the liberalisation of the movement of people is also very important. lithuanians still remember the restrictions on travel they experienced. we know what it means to live on the borders of europe. it is important that the issue of visa-free travel should be at the top of the list of priorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision laying down the rules for the import into the eu from greenland of fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, crustaceans, molluscs, marine gastropods and their by-products. greenland's exports of fishery products account for 82% of its total exports, amounting to eur 255 million in 2007, of which the largest share (87%) was directed to the eu, with the largest share (97%) going to denmark. the main fishery products exported from greenland are shrimp (59%), greenland duck (23%), cod (9,5%), crab (1,9%), herring (1,4%) and eggs (1,3%). this decision involves the change of legal basis from a council decision to a regulation of the ep and of the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the minimum requirements for the procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection in the member states. the establishment of a common european asylum system began as soon as the treaty of amsterdam entered into force in may 1999, but despite all the efforts made over the last decade to harmonise asylum provisions, there are still significant differences between national provisions and their application. i agree that, regardless of the member state in which asylum seekers lodge their application, they must be guaranteed a high-level procedure, uniform throughout the european union. it is therefore essential not only to harmonise the requirements of the legislation in this area but also to encourage practical cooperation between member states. it is clear that these objectives require urgent reforms to ensure that persons seeking asylum in an eu member state are effectively protected. by voting in favour of this resolution, we, the members of the european parliament, are contributing to the development of a fair and effective european asylum policy.
in writing. − the european union's main objective in the field of asylum is to establish by 2012 a common area of protection and solidarity based on a uniform asylum procedure. despite all the efforts made over the last decade to harmonise asylum provisions, there are still significant differences between national provisions and their application. regardless of the member state in which they lodge their application, asylum seekers must be guaranteed the same treatment, taking into account common standards established throughout the european union. the establishment of a strong european legal framework is necessary if the european union is to implement the common european asylum system properly and effectively. it is therefore only through improved and harmonised procedures and the associated guarantees that a common asylum system can be established. furthermore, a review of the asylum procedures directive is necessary in order to create an accessible, fair and efficient procedure that will benefit both asylum seekers and the member states themselves. i would like to stress that the commission's new revised proposal for this directive can indeed help to ensure greater coherence, to improve international protection standards and to improve the quality and efficiency of asylum procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that we should take this opportunity to create a fair and effective common european asylum system. asylum policy has a direct impact on the persons seeking protection and on the european union's ability to develop and create a common area of freedom, security and justice. it is necessary to ensure harmonised, fair and effective procedures under the common european asylum system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because we must make every effort to achieve an even greater effectiveness of the european asylum system, which has a direct impact on individuals. asylum policy is of paramount importance as it has a major impact on the eu's overall ability to develop and create a common area of freedom, security and justice. first, there is a need to ensure greater consistency in asylum measures. the procedures must be harmonised in order to be applied fairly and effectively. in addition, the minimum procedural safeguards need to be improved. the right of asylum seekers to information, to be heard and to legal aid must be guaranteed and unrestricted. all procedural measures must be non-discriminatory, applied in the same way and with due regard to the guarantees and principles of personal rights. special attention shall be paid to the vulnerable group of asylum seekers. the best interests of the children must be duly safeguarded and represented in the necessary procedures. i support the proposal that provides for the immediate expulsion of a person who may pose a threat to the national security of the state or who has been forcibly expelled from the country under national law because of a threat to public security. such an option is very important and necessary as it will enable member states to prevent the operation of terrorist networks and to take appropriate preventive measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. tourism is an important economic activity in the eu, which can make a major contribution to job creation and higher economic growth, as well as playing an important role in the social and economic integration of rural and less developed areas. the european tourism industry comprises some 1,8 million businesses, mainly smes, employing about 5,2% of the total workforce (about 9,7 million jobs). i support the commission's efforts to redefine european tourism policy, as the eu has gained more competence in this area with the lisbon treaty. the tourism sector faces major challenges such as global competition, demographic change, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist flows and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies. i believe that the tourism sector needs to be strengthened at eu level by coordinating actions that complement the initiatives of the member states. this regulation, which aims to establish a common system for the production of systematic european tourism statistics for the collection, production, processing and transmission of harmonised european statistics on tourism supply and demand, is of particular importance as its proper implementation will allow the real situation of tourism in the member states to be known and to be better adapted to the changing needs of tourists.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the need to improve european tourism policy, especially in view of the recent difficult economic situation of the european tourism sector. the european union has gained more competence in the tourism sector since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, following a change in the legal framework, and the european commission has put forward a proposal for a new tourism policy. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to update and improve the legal basis for european tourism statistics, but there is concern that the new proposed regulation does not provide for satellite accounts for tourism. these accounts are particularly important for the progressive development of integrated tourism statistical systems and for a better understanding of the real value of tourism and its impact on job creation and economic growth. in addition, in order to improve the knowledge base for the development and growth of tourism, the commission should develop pilot studies in the field of tourism. these studies are proposed to be carried out on a voluntary basis in the member states with a view to developing a system for collecting data on the environmental impact of tourism.
in writing. − i voted for this document because it is necessary to improve and redefine european tourism policy. tourism is an important economic activity in the eu, which can make a major contribution to job creation and higher economic growth, as well as playing an important role in the social and economic integration of rural, peripheral and less developed areas, such as those with a strong industrial heritage. in addition to being used to monitor tourism policy, statistics in this area also have an impact on regional policy and sustainable development. the main challenges facing the sector, such as global competition, demographic change, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist flows and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies, need to be addressed. it is necessary to strengthen the tourism sector at eu level by coordinating actions that complement member states' initiatives. to successfully implement the new policy, legislators at all levels need to make informed decisions based on reliable, comparable statistical data. tourism is an important economic activity with a positive impact on economic growth and employment in europe and it is therefore necessary to update and improve the legal basis for european tourism statistics, thereby strengthening the tourism sector at eu level. the measures will thus increase the competitiveness of european tourism and promote its sustainable growth.
in writing. − today, parliament adopted an important document on the legal basis for european tourism statistics. member states are required to provide regularly updated data on the availability and employment of accommodation facilities and on tourism needs. with the changing travel habits of europeans (e.g. increasing short-term travel) and the shift of the tourism sector towards certain innovations (e.g. online booking of travel), it is necessary to update the legal framework governing the collection of statistical data in the field of tourism. however, in my view, the most important provision supported by the ep relates to the collection of data relating to persons with reduced mobility and their impact on the access of such persons to full tourism services. in the constant talk about improving the quality of life of disabled people, we must also include tourism in this area. only in this way will we be able to ensure that tourism policy is effectively implemented and that consumer rights are protected.
in writing. − i voted for this document because there is a growing recognition that fisheries management must be based on the most up-to-date and accurate knowledge of the state of fish stocks. this is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of fisheries. for this reason, i believe that the co-financing rates for the collection, processing and use of key data should be allowed to be increased, with a maximum proposed rate of 75%. given that aquaculture is considered to be a sector of increasing importance (as reflected in the recently prepared, discussed and adopted report 'new impetus for the implementation of the european strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture') and given the real growth prospects for it, the relevant provisions for the collection, management and use of data should also cover environmental and socio-economic data. environmental and health monitoring and surveillance should be carried out accordingly. this would help to make the sector more sustainable. the sustainability of the fisheries sector is of particular importance at this time. member states and their control authorities have and should continue to have a key role in monitoring and implementing control measures in their waters, as a key means of achieving compliance and resource consideration. in order to do this effectively, member states should acquire new technologies or be able to develop and modernise existing technologies. the management of investment control systems could be made more efficient and could be operated more cheaply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in the absence of an agreement on a draft regulation simplifying and clarifying the legislation on the conservation of fishery resources, a regulation was adopted in 2008 laying down transitional measures initially intended to apply for the period 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. the purpose of this legislative proposal is to extend this transitional arrangement for an additional 18 months, until 1 january 2013, in order to define a new set of technical measures to implement the reform of the common fisheries policy currently under way. one proposal is to be submitted by the commission in 2011. the commission should therefore use the new extension of the current regulation to assess, together with other entities, the impact of the existing measures on the vessels applying them and on the relevant ecosystems. the commission should therefore take into account the results of this evaluation and prepare a new proposal for a regulation to apply after 1 january 2013 and which, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, should be adopted by the co-decision procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that the european parliament and the other eu institutions need to respond appropriately and effectively to the current financial, economic and social situation in the eu and apply strict management procedures in order to save money. the overall level of expenditure in the european parliament's 2012 draft estimate is expected to increase by 2,3% compared to the 2011 budget, and this does not exceed the current inflation rate of 2,8%. in the future, parliament must make even more effective use of its budgetary resources and strengthen its management and control procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the institutions must respond appropriately and effectively to the current financial, economic and social situation in the eu and apply strict management procedures to save money. it is clear that it is necessary to ensure that the institutions have sufficient resources, but in the current economic circumstances, resources should be used prudently and efficiently. i also believe that parliament must be even more efficient in saving money and in tightening management and control procedures. we need to further modernise and streamline administration, reducing dependence on external services through effective human resource management. all institutions should make every effort to reduce the cost of preparing their estimates of expenditure for the 2012 draft budget, as this would undoubtedly help and save taxpayers' money.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods in relation to children's development and health, as products in the common market must be safe, comply with standards and be legal, and health claims made on foods must be justified and scientifically proven, especially when it comes to children and their health. it is necessary to ensure that the nutritional or physiological benefits of the substances for which a claim is made are demonstrated. claims should be scientifically justified, taking into account the totality of the available scientific data and giving weight to the evidence. the use of health claims should be subject to the highest possible scientific evaluation and should not be misleading as regards nutrition and health claims.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty gives the eu exclusive competence in the field of foreign direct investment (fdi). this innovation has a major impact on two factors: the management of the bilateral investment treaties (bits) already concluded by more than 1 200 member states and the definition of the future investment policy of the european union, which meets the expectations of investors and the countries in which they intend to invest, while taking into account the objectives of the eu's external action. the aim of dis agreements between developed and developing countries is to provide legal and financial security for investors in developed countries. i agree that in shaping the future eu investment policy, investor protection must remain the main priority of investment agreements. future eu policy should also promote sustainable and environmentally friendly investments (especially in the extractive industries) and quality working conditions in the companies invested in, and the eu should therefore support the current reform of the osce guidelines to promote responsible behaviour by multinational companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the need to develop an integrated and coherent investment policy that promotes quality investment and has a positive impact on global economic progress and sustainable development. i believe that the common investment policy can meet the expectations of both investors and the countries concerned and can help to increase the competitiveness of the eu and its businesses and to increase employment. investment risks are generally higher in developing countries and lower in developed countries. strong, effective investor protection in investment agreements is essential to protect european investors, which can improve governance and ensure stability. in order to continue to benefit these countries, investment agreements must also be based on the commitment of investors to respect human rights and anti-corruption standards, as part of a broader partnership between the eu and developing countries to reduce poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on international investment policy. as foreign direct investment is an exclusive competence of the eu, every effort should be made to develop a coherent and integrated investment policy, respecting human rights, the rule of law. the common investment policy will promote quality investment, sustainable economic, social and environmental development and will have a positive impact on global economic progress. i believe that such an investment policy will help europe to remain a major player in foreign direct investment, which will help to boost economic growth, increase the competitiveness of businesses and stimulate job creation. i believe that the commission must develop an eu investment strategy as a matter of urgency, as both foreign investment in the eu and eu investment abroad have a positive impact on growth and employment in the eu and in other countries, including developing countries. every effort must be made to ensure a high level of investor protection, which is a guarantee of stability, good governance. in addition, small and medium-sized enterprises must be guaranteed legal certainty to facilitate their investment in foreign markets. investment agreements shall be concluded in strict compliance with anti-corruption standards and with a commitment to respect human rights.
in writing. − i have supported this report, which calls for action and resources to be allocated to ensure that eu funds are not used in corruption cases and that full transparency is ensured in the recipients of eu financial support. eu taxpayers' money must be used properly and efficiently. member states must have effective control mechanisms and adequate fraud detection capabilities. all funds paid out in the course of the infringements must be recovered from the eu budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because member states must ensure that the fight against fraud is primarily aimed at protecting taxpayers' money. the reporting methodology and fraud detection capacity in the member states need to be strengthened. the commission's 2009 report on the protection of financial interests does not provide information on the possible level of irregularities and fraud in individual member states, and therefore it is not possible to assess the overall level of irregularities and fraud in the member states and to identify and sanction the member states with the highest levels of irregularities and fraud. the commission report does not cover fraud in detail and the infringements are very broad. it is regrettable that a large part of eu funds continues to be misused and the commission must take appropriate action to ensure that these funds are recovered swiftly. there must be no tolerance for error and the commission must, together with the member states, draw up an appropriate report, in accordance with the treaty, and give parliament the appropriate assurance that this objective has been achieved and that the anti-fraud measures are being properly implemented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the application of the regulations governing european political parties and the rules on their funding. it is an important document contributing to the development of european political parties in order to stimulate public interest in eu affairs. a common and transparent system of funding for european political parties is necessary to ensure that eu citizens support and trust these parties. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament is making a clear case for transparent funding, which is a key element of democratic values and good governance. it is essential that european political parties promoting democracy in the union have a common and equal legal status. the parties need more than ever to have european statutes based on eu law to help harmonise the tax aspects of eu political parties in order to achieve their objectives. i agree with the rapporteur that this document contributes to a more efficient eu political party system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the treaty of lisbon provides for the important role of political parties in the creation of a single european citizens' area, and it is therefore essential to ensure their equal legal status and their funding in a way that is as transparent and accountable as possible to society. the current relatively closed nature of many political parties in europe, with little change of leadership, weakens the role of these political organisations in ensuring the involvement of citizens in political decision-making. by reforming the rules governing the activities of political parties, the european union could seize the opportunity to encourage the renewal of european political parties. i believe that the new unified rules for the activities and financing of political parties should include criteria for the democratic nature of the formation of internal party structures, a kind of safeguard for democracy, failing which political organisations would lose part of their opportunities, for example, they would not be able to apply for public funding.
in writing. − i have supported this report because the creation of a safe and transparent environment for the operation and funding of european political parties is a goal of a strong democracy. we must create a space, a european space, in which parties can act to unite the citizens of the union and help them in their daily lives. the adoption of specific rules which will make it possible to achieve this objective has two consequences. on the one hand, up-to-date and public information on the formation of european political parties and their position in europe will be provided rapidly. citizens will know that their participation in the activities of a european political party is governed by european union law and that political parties have rights and obligations. on the other hand, the statutes of european political parties provide the opportunity to establish a cross-border party system. this system is the first and necessary step towards more participation, more democracy and more europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because political parties at european level are an important factor in the integration of the union with a view to creating a european pole, a political space and democracy. european political parties need to work closely with their members, existing national and regional parties, and therefore need to be given favourable conditions for their activities and funding. it is necessary to ensure maximum transparency and financial control of european political parties financed from the general budget of the european union. in particular, the financial regulation should be supplemented by provisions designed to regulate the financing of european parties and foundations only. it is also appropriate to provide for an exception whereby those lots would be allowed to receive 100% of the funding at the beginning of the financial year instead of 80% and the proportion of independent resources to be demonstrated would be reduced to 10%. in order to ensure that the funding allocated is used in a transparent and appropriate manner, the regulation should provide for penalties for breaches of the funding arrangements. given the political role played by european political parties at eu level, i support the proposal to give them the right to participate in the campaigns for referendums directly related to eu issues and to use the funds allocated to them to finance these campaigns. only strong and effective european political parties can help to bring the eu institutions and citizens closer together, and the commission should therefore propose a draft statute for european political parties as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − the european parliament elections should be made more democratic. eu citizens must be given the opportunity to vote not only for national lists but also for european lists. european political parties and political foundations are becoming increasingly important in the political life of the european union. however, they are still struggling to gain more popularity and support, as they are still more of a national party organisation than a direct interaction with voters in the member states. the conditions for the activities of european political parties must be improved, as this is tantamount to improving the eu's representative governance and strengthening democracy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is an important step - perhaps the first - in strengthening political parties at european level. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to establish as soon as possible a legal framework for the activities of european political parties. the financing of the activities of european political parties shall be transparent. to ensure that, it should be possible to carry out financing checks.
in writing. − one of the greatest challenges in reviving the single market project is to ensure effective political leadership, commitment and coordination, and comprehensive leadership at the highest political level is crucial in reviving the single market project. the european commission must take on a greater coordinating role and the president of the commission must be given the power to coordinate and oversee the renewal of the single market project in close cooperation with the president of the european council and the competent authorities of the member states. i have supported this report because i believe that better political coordination at all levels is necessary to properly implement the priorities of the single market, which are aimed at promoting growth, competitiveness, a social market economy and sustainability in the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in order to successfully revive the eu single market, it is of the utmost importance to envisage and strategically plan not only the concrete means to achieve the objective but also the effective ways of using those means. one of the most important measures, which has been repeatedly stressed by many representatives of the public and interest groups, including prof. monti himself, is to ensure political leadership of this eu project, which is of paramount importance. this would allow the importance of completing the internal market to be duly emphasised throughout the european union. another equally important measure, in my view, is the strengthening of dialogue with the social partners and civil society. indeed, the social partners should always be actively involved in the preparation of single market legislation that could have an impact on the labour market. it is also essential to involve and strengthen partnerships with local and regional authorities more actively in the process of creating the single market, since it is at this level that most legislation must be applied in practice. finally, i fully agree that taking measures alone is not enough to bring europe closer to its citizens. it is essential to keep european citizens informed of the achievements of the internal market and its benefits, so that they are aware of the rights and opportunities that the european union and one of its key projects - the single internal market - offer them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a directive to involve national parliaments and regional authorities more closely in the development of the new directive, in consultation with employers, trade unions and other associations. the commission is invited to publish a timetable for the implementation of the single market act and to publish regularly concrete progress in order to draw the attention of the eu public to its implementation and its benefits. it is proposed that partnerships with local and regional authorities be developed not only in the context of cohesion policy but also in the context of single market policy. common market rules are often implemented and applied by local and regional authorities in the member states. experience with the implementation of the services directive has clearly shown that the involvement of local and regional authorities can be of crucial importance in ensuring that single market legislation is properly implemented and applied. the dialogue and partnership element of the governance of the single market should be strengthened through greater involvement of national parliaments. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon opens up new opportunities for national parliaments to be involved in the development of the single market rules throughout the legislative cycle and to participate in joint activities with the european parliament. this could accelerate the adoption of further transposition measures at member state level. the regular exchange of information with national parliaments on the transposition of the directive on the progress of the transposition could also facilitate the transposition process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the establishment and functioning of governance and partnership processes is one of the key factors in ensuring the efficient functioning of the market. it should be noted that the partnership must be developed not only in the context of cohesion policy but also in the context of single market policy. i think that national parliaments and regional authorities need to be more involved in the development of the directive. this is essential to ensure that eu legislation is properly implemented and applied in the member states. the process of transposition of legislation into national law would also be facilitated. consultation with employers, trade unions and other associations is necessary to take account of the needs and interests of society. it should be noted that the governance system is established through the interaction of the state, civil society and the private sector, which makes it particularly important to ensure that the governance of the single market is based on the principles of transparency and accountability. in order for the governance system to function effectively, member states must provide the commission with clear and accurate information on the implementation of directives on a regular basis. i support the proposal to reduce the deficit in transposition of the single market to 0.5% of non-transposed acts and 0.5% of incorrectly transposed acts by the end of 2012.
in writing. − colleagues, a more competitive single market offers a great opportunity to boost growth in the crisis-hit european economies. economic and social objectives of the single market free movement of workers, combating social exclusion, transferability of pensions worth fighting for. however, good governance and legal clarity are necessary for a genuine single market to become a reality. the governance structures of the single market must be as simple as possible, otherwise the overall efficiency and transparency of the single market will be weakened. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for a more targeted choice of legislative instruments. more efforts must also be made to improve administrative cooperation between member states. this would not only help to solve urgent problems of implementation of specific directives, but also to build mutual trust between the institutions of the member states and to make the single market more effective in the long term. it is important to me that the revitalisation of the eu single market will stimulate job creation and create a business-friendly environment. a successful single market should encourage entrepreneurship and remove barriers to the creation of new smes. this is particularly true for lithuania lithuania has approximately 31 smes per 1000 inhabitants, which is clearly below the eu-27 average (40).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the fragmentation of the internal market reduces the confidence of eu citizens in it, since they cannot fully enjoy the freedoms that belong to them. the commission's communication sets out a package of measures that should help achieve an integrated and smooth-functioning single market, which could boost the recovery of the european economy and its competitiveness. i would like to stress a very important aspect: the importance of the creation of a single energy market. the common energy market is of particular importance for the eu's competitiveness, both internally and externally. the creation of such a market would help to reduce external dependence and make energy prices accessible, fair and competitive for our citizens and businesses. legislative and other initiatives in the field of energy should aim at ensuring energy supply through a variety of energy networks and sources, new renewable energy infrastructures and coordinated research and development of new energy sources. these initiatives must be implemented by the european commission with consistent coordination and supervision of the member states and the industries concerned. the real development of the single market for the benefit of citizens, business and european competitiveness must be fostered by the creation of infrastructure projects with added value for europe as a whole, financed and managed at eu level, in order to ensure our energy independence and security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that further action is needed to strengthen citizens' social rights and their implementation in order to restore european citizens' faith in the single market and to support the idea of european union. among the areas requiring further action at both national and eu level, the report identifies the creation of new jobs in the light of demographic and labour market developments in the member states, as well as the safeguarding of workers' rights and fair working conditions, which is of particular importance while promoting the mobility of workers between member states. the communication also stresses the need to strengthen the rights of citizens as consumers and users of public services and the need to organise appropriate information campaigns to inform them of their rights and freedoms. the focus is also on reforming the system for the recognition of professional qualifications, the need to ensure the transferability of pension rights, and encouraging member states to coordinate pension policies more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because of the need to improve european market surveillance, develop access to basic services in the banking sector, create a common integrated mortgage market and eliminate tax barriers and double taxation, and implement e-commerce policies quickly and effectively to increase citizens' and consumers' confidence in online shopping. in addition, an action plan to combat counterfeiting and piracy is needed as a key measure to ensure that goods in the single market are safe to consume, comply with standards and are legal. the commission and the member states should develop an effective communication strategy on the single market, based on a policy audit assessing the tangible benefits to citizens. it is necessary to put in place a framework of concrete guidelines, based on a horizontal social clause, to assess the suitability of all single market measures in terms of their social impact, tangible benefits and feasibility, and to be used in future policy-making. our citizens must be seen as the centre of the single market.
in writing. − more than half a century ago, the european states came together to create a single market. we've been building it for a quarter of a century. however, there are still a number of issues to be resolved today if the single market is to function effectively and the european union is to be competitive. i think that of all the measures discussed and mentioned in the document we adopted, two aspects are particularly important: reducing youth unemployment and lifelong learning and the creation and functioning of the single energy market. as for young people, they are the ones who will live in the europe we are building. it is therefore important to provide all the opportunities for young people to adapt properly and to contribute to shaping their future. the energy market is a new eu policy area. smart energy networks will undoubtedly play a major role in the future economy, and we need to urgently and adequately focus and invest resources in their development and improvement.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the main focus must be on fundamental social rights, the free movement of workers, goods, businesses and the protection of consumer rights. the single market must be a platform for sustainable growth and increased employment, with citizens at its centre. in this context, it is essential to avoid distortions of competition. the common market will remain competitive if all social rights are respected. social welfare, workers' rights and adequate working conditions must be adequately safeguarded and continuously strengthened. i support the proposal to abolish the possibility of working in the territory of a member state without respecting its provisions on pay and working conditions. the principle of equal pay for equal work must be fully implemented. barriers to the free movement of workers must be removed. labour markets in the member states need to be open to all european workers, but they need to be regulated in accordance with the labour market rules of those member states, including the scandinavian model of collective agreements. it is essential to give member states the right to decide for themselves whether to grant non-union citizens the right of residence in their territory. a social focus of the single market requires a sustainable restructuring of industry and continuous consultation with the social partners. in order to ensure that citizens have access to high-quality, innovative public services and that they are accessible to all, it is essential to ensure that the public sector is able to involve businesses more effectively in its activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the single market to boost business and growth. the single market is of vital importance to both businesses and consumers, and particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have the greatest potential for further development and employment. i support the rapporteur's view that the promotion of electronic commerce and the creation of a digital single market are another important aspect of the single market. this is a very complex process, given the differences in tax systems, contract law and business requirements between eu member states, but efforts must continue in this area. the coordination of tax policies is also necessary, as the establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base would make the single market a better place for european businesses to do business.
in writing. − a smoothly functioning single market based on free and fair competition is a key objective of eu economic reform. the internal market currently remains fragmented and the remaining administrative and regulatory barriers have a negative impact on all businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not able to take full advantage of the single market. the eu has no clear rules on licensing of ownership. this has a direct impact on counterfeiting and piracy, thereby reducing business confidence in electronic commerce and encouraging fragmentation linked to intellectual property protection rules, which in turn hinders innovation in the single market. the issue of public procurement, which accounts for about 17% of eu gdp, is particularly important to address properly. so far, cross-border procurement accounts for a small share of the total procurement market, as access to the procurement market for smes is still limited. the common market in services, which is a crucial sector for growth and employment, is still underdeveloped, in particular because of the gaps and difficulties encountered by member states in implementing the services directive. i agree with the proposals in the commission's communication 'towards a single market act', but i believe that to ensure the effective functioning of the single market, member states need to better implement the eu initiatives already adopted, such as the small business act, which would solve many of the administrative and regulatory problems facing eu businesses today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that to successfully revive the eu's single market and at the same time increase the eu's global competitiveness and job creation, a number of measures are needed to promote sustainable business growth and development. i also believe that it is essential that these measures should be combined with those for regional development and complement each other, so as to avoid the concentration of industry, business and services in certain regions and leaving the other, more remote regions to their own devices. the communication also addresses a range of other issues affecting citizens' daily lives, the competitiveness of businesses and, consequently, the creation of new jobs in europe the pursuit and promotion of research and new technologies, and the development and expansion of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure. the issue of lithuania's importance is also addressed, drawing attention to the need to upgrade the energy infrastructure in eastern european countries in order to successfully connect them to western european energy networks. the accessibility of energy prices to consumers across europe is also emphasised in this area. the communication encourages the commission and the member states to work together to develop and promote more efficient and cleaner vehicle systems and their use, and to develop international electronic commerce, including through the improvement of electronic payment systems over the internet.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in order to successfully revive the eu's single market and at the same time increase the eu's global competitiveness and job creation, a number of measures are needed to promote sustainable business growth and development. the european economy is currently the largest in the world. the single market is of vital importance to businesses and consumers alike, but it has the potential to further stimulate growth and employment and its full potential has not yet been realised. particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have the greatest potential for further development and employment. it is therefore essential to promote sustainable economic growth. the single market itself and the businesses operating in it are of paramount importance for the future growth of the eu economy. the single market must be an innovative, business-friendly, digital economy-based economy with an effective free movement of services. a well-functioning services market has a high growth potential and hence a high potential for our economic recovery. only sustainable growth guarantees the creation of sustainable jobs. additional measures should be taken to ensure the proper implementation of the services and professional qualifications directives. in addition, the idea of creating eu professional certificates should be explored, where appropriate, as such certificates could increase the freedom of movement of eu citizens and simplify recruitment procedures for eu companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the single market is a very important factor in promoting business and its development. a strong focus should be placed on innovation and creativity, and on the appropriate financing mechanism for these. innovation provides the basis for stronger and more sustainable growth and job creation. in particular, the efficient functioning of the financing mechanism requires the creation of favourable conditions for long-term investment in innovative and job-creating sectors. particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have a significant economic impact on the european economy. the single market must become a better environment for their business, which will help them to expand their international activities, improve their access to capital markets and remove administrative and tax obstacles. smes must be able to receive appropriate support under union regional policy, taking into account their importance in improving social links in urban areas or sparsely populated areas. a multifaceted structure of the european banking sector needs to be established to meet the financing needs of smes. it is essential to establish a clearer vat system and a common consolidated corporate tax base. i believe that there is an urgent need to adopt european private enterprise statutes to facilitate the process of establishing smes and their cross-border activities. it should be noted that public procurement procedures need to be more rational. cross-border procurement needs to be facilitated and interaction between industrialised countries and emerging economies ensured.
mr president, i would like to make a short comment regarding nuclear plants in third countries that are very close to eu borders. two particular cases have already been mentioned today, two simultaneous nuclear projects: one in the kaliningrad district of the russian federation, which is completely surrounded by lithuania, poland and the baltic sea, and the second in belarus, where a nuclear power station is planned to be built just 20 kms away from the lithuanian border. when the whole world was watching the dramatic developments in fukushima, on 15 march the belarus government and the russian state-owned energy company rosatom signed a contract under which rosatom will have to finish the nuclear plant in belarus by 2018. russia is also preparing a usd 6 billion envelope to belarus to finance this project. so the belarus authorities have been defiant about the need to properly inform belarus’s neighbours about the planned project, and the project as it stands clearly violates the espoo convention on environmental impact assessment.
mr president, we should not turn a blind eye to blatant human rights violations taking place in the three countries. the situation in syria is very serious and its stakes the highest. in syria, teachers, opposition activists, journalists and bloggers are being targeted. there are many people killed; many detained; foreign journalists have been kicked out of the country; an information blockade is in place; no independent press at all. so we should consider sanctions against syria. we should also consider policy actions in yemen and bahrain. as for yemen we have a standing agreement on arms exports; we should consider suspending this agreement. as we debate the situation in those three countries: firstly, let us call for accountability; secondly let us have special sessions in the united nations human rights council in geneva… (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, at this time it is important to consider carefully, and strike the right balance between, both the european neighbourhood policy factors. the enp should become more flexible, proactive and optimised. if we want to create an area of stability, shared values and progress surrounding in europe we should, firstly, no longer limit ourselves with predefined quotas. financial assistance should be balanced according to political involvement and the will to move closer to eu values, freedoms and standards. it should be result-oriented and tied to objective and clear criteria on democratisation and the progress achieved in reforms. secondly, we should consider creating a rapid reaction tool within the enp for prompt and flexible response to political changes in partner countries, as has happened recently in the southern neighbourhood. thirdly, the attractiveness of eu assistance is also important. the simplification of eu fund allocation procedures and active sharing of expertise by the member states at the early stages of programming would be an additional incentive.
the review of the european neighbourhood policy is one of the most important tasks. the events in egypt, tunisia, libya, yemen, bahrain and elsewhere are ruthlessly shattering many of the stereotypes of european thinking: that most people in the middle east or north africa do not care about human rights, that they are accustomed to living under dictatorships. the revolutions in the arab world have shown the fallacy of such thinking. i was in egypt a few weeks ago, on the day of the referendum on constitutional amendments. everyone we met talked about freedom, justice, democracy, and so on. most stressed that the european union's support must be different, that it must support the strengthening of civil society, the creation of political parties, the protection of human rights, so that the forthcoming parliamentary and presidential elections are democratic, free and fair. the democratic processes that are taking place there are very fragile, vulnerable, and they need our help in time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because bluetongue affects ruminants (e.g. cattle, sheep and goats). since the beginning of the 21st century, a number of outbreaks have occurred in many member states, including those in central and northern europe, resulting in significant losses in animal morbidity, mortality and disruption of trade in live animals. until now, the requirements for the control and eradication of bluetongue have been based on the practice of administering live attenuated vaccines, as these were the only vaccines available. possible adverse reaction to the use of these vaccines the virus contained in these vaccines may spread to unvaccinated animals. new inactivated vaccines have been developed over the last few years. unlike the ' live attenuated vaccines', these inactivated vaccines do not pose an undesirable risk of spreading the virus they contain and can therefore be used successfully in areas where animal movements are not restricted. the adoption of this proposal would remove some restrictions which, in the light of recent developments, have become unnecessary. the new rules would allow member states to apply vaccination more effectively and to control outbreaks of bluetongue, as well as to reduce the burden of the disease on agriculture.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the lessons to be learned from the nuclear accident in japan on nuclear safety in europe. i voted against the resolution as a whole because, in voting on paragraph 5 of the resolution, the ep majority supported the second part of the resolution, which calls for a moratorium on the development of nuclear energy and the construction of new nuclear power plants in the european union. this provision was adopted despite the fact that my group european people's party (christian democrats) voted against it. having lost the vote on this most important issue, i could not vote for the entire resolution, so i voted against. otherwise, i would have voted against my country's energy strategy, which is aimed at energy independence. lithuania has been preparing for the construction of a new nuclear power plant for several years, and preparatory work has been underway for several years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, although not all the s&d amendments were adopted in the vote. the text of the resolution contained provisions of particular importance concerning the planned construction of nuclear power plants in the kaliningrad region and in belarus. the resolution notes that there are significant problems in the field of nuclear safety standards and compliance with relevant obligations under international conventions. these problems are relevant not only to lithuania, which directly borders belarus and the kaliningrad region, but also to europe as a whole. the document also contains important proposals to ensure that the highest nuclear safety standards are met and to carry out comprehensive testing of existing nuclear power plants in the eu in order to assess the real safety situation of such plants.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the nuclear accident in japan has left thousands dead and missing, caused extensive material damage, and will have long-term consequences for human health. we are still feeling the effects of chernobyl, and today we need to re-evaluate our approach to nuclear safety in the eu and in the world. the completion of nuclear projects in belarus and kaliningrad presents major problems with respect to nuclear safety standards, compliance with relevant commitments under international conventions, as these problems are relevant not only to the member states directly bordering these regions, but also to europe as a whole. the eu and the relevant ec entities must necessarily act together in accordance with the principle of solidarity. the resolution on the eu's baltic sea strategy and the role of macro-regions in the future cohesion policy states that, in view of the planned development of nuclear energy in the baltic sea region, eu countries must adhere to the highest safety and environmental standards and the ec must monitor and control the observance of the same approach and international conventions in neighbouring countries close to the eu's external borders. nuclear power plants built at the eu's external borders must comply with international nuclear safety and environmental standards. the importance of energy efficiency and energy saving, renewable and sustainable energy, and the deployment of european-wide electricity grids has increased in particular today. it is also important to have a smart grid that can operate by drawing energy from decentralised energy production facilities.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. demonstrators in bahrain, syria and yemen have expressed legitimate democratic aspirations and strong demands for political, economic and social reforms aimed at establishing genuine democracy, fighting corruption, ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, reducing social inequalities and creating better economic and social conditions. the governments of these countries have responded to the legitimate expectations of the people with violent repression, arbitrary detention and torture, resulting in many deaths, injuries and imprisonments. the violence used by the governments of these countries against their own populations must have a direct impact on their bilateral relations with the european union. the eu can and must use a number of measures to deter such activity, such as freezing funds, banning entry, etc. the eu must monitor its policy towards these countries and make full and effective use of the support available under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the stability instrument to provide immediate assistance to middle east and gulf countries and civil societies seeking changes in democracy and respect for human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, following similar events in other arab countries, the participants in the demonstrations in bahrain, syria and yemen expressed legitimate democratic aspirations and strong popular demands for political, economic and social reforms aimed at establishing genuine democracy, combating corruption and nepotism, ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, reducing social inequalities and creating better economic and social conditions. the eu and its member states must therefore support the peaceful democratic aspirations of the people of bahrain, syria and yemen, and the governments of these countries must not respond by escalating violent repression. serious crimes, including extrajudicial killings, abductions and disappearances, arbitrary detentions, torture and unfair trials, must not be justified in any way.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the fourth un conference on the least developed countries should focus more on policy coherence in development, as an important factor in poverty reduction. in addition to the existing difficulties, the situation in the least developed countries has been further exacerbated by the recent global financial, food security, climate change and energy crises. this un conference should therefore be results-oriented, based on clear indicators and aiming at the goal of halving the number of least developed countries by 2020, combined with effective and transparent monitoring and follow-up assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the third un conference on the least developed countries and the adoption of the brussels programme of action have brought about a number of positive developments, such as the creation of the 'everything but arms' initiative, the increase in official development assistance (which doubled in 2000-2008), and the increase in foreign direct investment from usd 6 billion to usd 33 billion, bringing the growth rate of the 19 countries to 3%. the fourth un conference on the least developed countries should be results-oriented, based on clear indicators and aiming at halving the number of least developed countries by 2020, with effective and transparent monitoring and follow-up. i would stress the need to give priority to food security, agriculture, infrastructure, capacity building, inclusive economic growth, access to technology and human and social development in the least developed countries.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i am positive about iceland's prospect of joining the eu, as iceland has a strong democratic tradition and a well-established civic culture, which will allow it to join the eu's member states unhindered. i believe that iceland's accession to the eu would increase the union's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, thus contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy-making in the region. iceland is already actively involved in the nordic council and the eu's northern dimension policy, the european arctic council of the barents sea, and the arctic council, the main multilateral forum for cooperation in the arctic. iceland's accession to the eu would further enhance the eu's participation in the arctic council. iceland can also make a valuable contribution to eu environmental and energy policy, with its experience in the use of renewable energy sources, in particular geothermal energy, environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because accession negotiations with iceland were opened in july 2010 and because it is essential to create the conditions necessary to complete the accession procedures for iceland and ensure its successful accession. iceland can make a valuable contribution to eu environment and energy policy through its experience in the use of renewable energy sources, in particular geothermal energy, environmental protection and the fight against climate change. the accession of iceland to the eu would enhance the union's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, thus contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy-making in the region. it is also essential to provide eu citizens with clear, comprehensive and factual information on the consequences of iceland's membership of the eu. efforts must be made to achieve this objective and i believe it is also important to hear and address the problems and issues that citizens are concerned about, to respond to their views and to take their interests into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in 2005, the european council granted candidate status to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but did not set a date for the start of negotiations thereafter, despite the country's significant progress on its eu path. despite the progress made, political instability in macedonia remains, which could undermine the process of european integration. there is no dialogue between the government and the opposition parties, which makes it impossible to reach an agreement on the implementation of structural reforms. the incomplete reform of the judiciary, the politicization of the media and public administration, and the unresolved issue of the integration of ethnic groups prevent macedonia from making further progress and implementing the necessary reforms to ensure the rule of law and the principles of democracy. i believe that the macedonian government needs to involve opposition parties more closely in decision-making and to ensure an open and constructive dialogue on all the current problems facing the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because in 2005 the european council granted candidate status to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but did not set a date for the start of negotiations thereafter, despite the fact that this country had made significant progress on its path to eu membership, because bilateral issues, although they should be resolved before accession, should not constitute obstacles and impede the accession process, and because continuing the accession process would contribute to the stability of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and further strengthen the dialogue between ethnic groups. bilateral issues must be addressed by the parties concerned in good neighbourly relations and in the common interests of the eu. all key actors and stakeholders need to step up their efforts and act responsibly and decisively in addressing all outstanding issues that not only impede the accession process of the candidate country and eu policy in the region, but also have the potential to affect ethnic relations, stability and economic development in the region. the document calls on the authorities responsible to strengthen the independence and freedom of the media, to apply uniform standards to all media outlets and to increase transparency of their ownership. the lack of dialogue between the government and the opposition parties and the general atmosphere of mistrust and confrontation are of concern. further reform of the judiciary is necessary to ensure its professionalism, efficiency and independence from political pressure, to step up the fight against corruption and to improve the business environment.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. in the last four months, ivory coast has been in a deep political crisis, triggered by the refusal of the incumbent president, laurent gbagbo, to hand over power to the legitimate president, alassane ouattara, despite the latter having won the presidential elections in november 2010 and having been recognised as the winner by the international community. according to un sources, hundreds of people have been killed in côte d'ivoire since december 2010, and the true number of victims is likely to be much higher, as the media does not always report on the violence inside the country. the country has been subject to deliberate attacks on un peacekeepers and institutions. i agree that urgent political action is needed to address the humanitarian situation in côte d'ivoire and prevent a new migration crisis in the region. the commission and the member states should coordinate their efforts with other international donors to respond to the urgent needs of the population of côte d'ivoire and neighbouring countries. i support the sanctions of the united nations security council, the african union and the council of the european union visa denial and freezing of funds to all persons and entities opposing the legitimate authority of the president and the application of these sanctions until the return of the legitimate authorities to power.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as ivory coast has been in a deep political crisis for the past four months, triggered by the refusal of the incumbent president, laurent gbagbo, to hand over power to the legitimate president, alassane ouattara, despite the fact that he won the presidential elections in november 2010 and was recognised as the winner by the international community when the results were confirmed by the united nations. all political efforts to find a peaceful solution to the post-election impasse, including those of the au and ecowas and the president of south africa, have failed. since mid-february, fighting has intensified in both the capital and the west of the country, with alarming reports of an increase in the use of heavy artillery by military forces against civilians. the ivory coast has committed atrocities, including sexual violence, abductions, extrajudicial killings, excessive and indiscriminate use of force against civilians, which amount to crimes against humanity. president ouattara is therefore called upon to promote peace, national reconciliation.
in writing. − since 2004, the implementation of the enp has led to stronger links with partner countries. the eastern partnership is a significant political framework for developing relations with partner countries based on the principles of shared commitment and responsibility. the priorities of the eastern partnership consist of the development of democracy, good governance and stability, economic integration and convergence with eu policies, in particular in the areas of environmental protection, climate change and energy security. the implementation of the epc faces certain obstacles and the review of the esp requires a clear definition of operational priorities, clear guidelines and results-based priorities. the epc must continue to be based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and support the political, social and economic reforms of our closest partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the overhaul of the eastern neighbourhood policy addresses the following key challenges: democratic processes, good governance and stability, economic integration, environmental protection, climate change and energy security. the european parliament considers that the fight against corruption, particularly in the judiciary and the police, should be a key priority for the european union in developing relations with the countries of eastern europe. in addition, every effort should be made to develop police and judicial cooperation with the competent agencies of the european union in the fight against transnational organised crime networks. it is essential that civil society organisations continue to play an active role, particularly in the field of human rights, in promoting democratic processes and ensuring media freedom. i would like to stress that freedom of expression and a free and independent media, including the internet, are essential for the development of democratic countries. the importance of trade unions and social dialogue must be emphasised as part of the democratic development of the eastern partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the revision of the eastern neighbourhood policy addresses the following key challenges: democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance. it is stressed that the esc remains a strategically important platform for developing and strengthening relations with our closest partners and supporting their political, social and economic reforms, and that it is important to continue to respect the principle of common commitments in the design and implementation of actions and programmes. the eastern partnership initiative is being launched as it provides the political framework for the advancement of the eastern dimension of the enp, which aims to develop and strengthen relations between the eu and its eastern neighbours through the development of political relations, economic integration and legislative harmonisation, while supporting political, social and economic reforms in the partner countries. i would like to stress that economic reforms must be accompanied by political reforms and that good governance can only be ensured by ensuring an open and transparent decision-making process by democratic institutions. it is essential to further promote regional cooperation in the black sea region and to develop eu policies relating to the region, in particular by starting to implement the comprehensive eu strategy for the black sea region and ensuring that sufficient financial and human resources are available for its effective implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it stresses the importance of establishing a working group with the involvement of parliament, in response to calls from actors for democratic change to monitor the processes of transition to democratic governance, in particular free and democratic elections and the establishment of institutions, including independent courts. it also calls for the eu to strongly support the process of political and economic reform in the region, using all existing instruments in the context of the enp and, where appropriate, adopting new instruments, in order to contribute as effectively as possible to the transition to democracy, with a focus on fundamental freedoms, good governance, judicial independence and the fight against corruption, thus meeting the needs and expectations of the people of the southern neighbourhood. it is necessary to ensure that aid is better targeted, in particular towards civil society and local communities, in accordance with the bottom-up approach, but that increases in funding should be based on an accurate assessment of needs and should reflect an increase in the effectiveness of the programmes implemented, which should be tailored to the needs of the beneficiary countries and allocated according to their priorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the use of sexual violence in conflicts in north africa and the middle east. women who have actively participated in the uprisings demanding more democracy, rights and freedoms in north africa and the middle east deserve our respect and support. the european union cannot remain silent when these brave fighters for democracy and freedom are brutally treated. we therefore call on the commission and the governments of the member states to strongly condemn the use of sexual violence, intimidation and violence against women in libya and egypt, as the regimes in power in those countries at the time used sexual violence against women as a weapon in the conflicts that arose during these revolutions. the egyptian authorities must take urgent action to end torture, investigate all cases of violence against peaceful protesters and end the use of military courts to try civilians. i am firmly convinced that the changes taking place in north africa and the middle east must help to eliminate discrimination against women and to ensure that they can fully participate in society on the same terms as men.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to put an end to violence and sexual violence against women as soon as possible. the european commission and the member states should strongly condemn the sexual violence, intimidation, torture and violence against women in libya and egypt. it is necessary to call on the egyptian supreme military council to take immediate action to stop these brutal crimes against women. it is necessary to ensure that all security and military forces are clearly informed that such crimes and torture cannot be tolerated and are fully investigated, and that perpetrators are held criminally liable. furthermore, every person should be given the opportunity to express his or her opinion on the democratic future of his or her country and should not be detained, tortured, humiliated or discriminated against for doing so.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the use of sexual violence in conflicts in north africa and the middle east. the commission and the governments of the member states are called upon to strongly condemn the use of sexual violence, intimidation and acts against women in libya and egypt. i believe that everyone should be given the opportunity to express their opinion on the democratic future of their country and that for this reason, a person should not be detained, tortured, humiliated or discriminated against. the role of women in revolutions and democratization processes should be recognised and the specific threats they face and the need to support and defend their rights should be highlighted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eib plays an important role in supporting smes, especially in the context of the financial crisis and economic downturn. given the importance of smes to the european economy, over eur 30 billion in loans to smes were agreed between 2008 and 2011. the european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion was launched in march 2010 with a commitment of eur 200 million from the commission and the bank. however, smes still face difficulties in obtaining loans. as the bank watch report shows, smes, especially in the eastern and central eu member states, are not able to make effective use of the support available to them. the eib must set clear financial conditions for financial intermediaries distributing loans and strict lending efficiency criteria for them. the commission also notes that the bank's lending to the private sector has been limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the bank's lending to the private sector is not distorted. in addition, no publicly available data on the use of the allocated funding and its beneficiaries are available on the eib website to date. i believe that the eib should increase the transparency of lending through financial intermediaries and provide an annual report on lending to smes, including an assessment of their availability and effectiveness and lists of borrowers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the ep supports the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, giving more flexibility to eib financing, including: the normal activities of the bank supplemented by participation in the management of its own capital, the possibility of setting up subsidiaries and other units to control so-called special activities, the provision of large-scale technical support services and the strengthening of the audit committee. it is recommended to consider the proposal for regulatory oversight based on the quality of the eib's financial position, the accurate assessment of results and the mitigation of risk of modification of the rules of good professional practice. in addition, 'project bonds' are supported, not only to improve the credit risk rating of bonds issued by companies under the europe 2020 strategy, but also to finance european transport, energy and information technology infrastructures and to make the economy more environmentally friendly. these 'project bonds' could have a positive impact on the availability of capital for sustainable investments in growth and jobs, complementing national and cohesion fund investments.
thank you to all the reporters for their excellent work. the discharge procedure is essential for the protection of the financial interests of the european union, ensuring better financial management of the european union and a more transparent and responsible management of the european union's taxpayers' money. i have a few remarks. first, the fact that breaches of public procurement rules remain one of the most frequent errors mentioned in the budgetary clearance report. this is due to the complexity of these rules. it is necessary to simplify the rules on public procurement and to establish transparent and uniform principles for public procurement throughout the european union. the commission should analyse the best practices in this area, as some member states, such as lithuania, already have sufficiently effective procurement principles based on modern technology, but as i have said, the political will on this matter is left to the commission. secondly, i would like to emphasise that improving the quality of the use of funds must not only be an important but also a real priority for the european union. clear and accelerated progress is needed in developing effective management and control systems in the member states, reducing the level of risk of errors and simplifying requirements and rules. for example, the report highlights the fact that complex rules are slowing down the use of european union funds for ten and ten projects and other cohesion policy priorities. i believe that there is an urgent need to ensure simplification, efficiency and transparency of procedures in this area. thirdly, as rapporteur responsible for the committee on budgetary control working document on improving transport performance in the trans-european railway axis, i would like to reiterate my call on the commission to take action to adapt rail infrastructure to make it suitable for trans-european services by creating missing links in border areas and helping member states to reduce the difficulties caused by different wind speeds and by providing effective financial assistance. finally, on the discharge of parliament's 2009 budget: i believe that parliament too must implement real solutions that involve more efficient use of funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to give a discharge to the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. the court carried out a thorough assessment of the monitoring and control systems applied in the court of justice, including audits relating to transactions in human resources and other administrative expenditure, in preparing its annual report for the financial year 2009. the results of this assessment are generally positive, except for the comments concerning one service contract. i agree with the court's suggestion that the court should improve and coordinate public procurement procedures. the court of justice has encountered difficulties in recruiting qualified conference interpreters, as well as limitations and the need to use a variety of interpretation techniques in order to meet all the qualitative and quantitative requirements of interpretation. i agree with the rapporteur that the court of justice should report on the way in which this issue is dealt with in its subsequent annual reports, since interpretation is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the court.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european ombudsman. in preparing its annual report for the financial year 2009, the court carried out a thorough assessment of the monitoring and control systems in place at the court of auditors, the ombudsman's offices and the european data protection supervisor's offices, which included an assessment of the transactions relating to additional payments for human resources and other administrative costs. the court found that the ombudsman had not adopted general provisions on the recruitment of temporary staff, although the relevant article of the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union requires that each institution approve them. i agree with the rapporteur that the non-approval of the provisions may have a negative impact on the majority of the staff of the ombudsman's office, since the majority of the posts created are temporary. the ombudsman has to report on progress in this area in his annual activity report. the court's annual report stated that no other substantive observations were made following the ombudsman's audit.
in writing. − i have approved this communication and the discharge to the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors noted in its annual report that the audit did not reveal any significant deficiencies in relation to the edps's activities. the court of auditors carried out a thorough assessment of the monitoring and control systems in place at the edps's office in preparation of its annual report for the financial year 2009. several examples of transactions involving payments for human resources and other administrative costs were also examined. the court has found that in certain circumstances the edps may be exposed to risks as regards the fairness of payments to staff. i support the court's proposal to require edps staff to submit periodically documents on their personal situation and to improve edps's system to ensure that these documents are checked and processed in a timely manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the court informed the european parliament that in the 2009 financial year a number of agencies carried over a large amount of unused funds to subsequent years. i agree with the rapporteur that the agencies concerned should increase their efforts to improve financial and budgetary planning and programming. i also believe that the expenditure of the agencies should be foreseeable and that a solution should be found which respects the principle of the annual periodicity of the union budget. the agencies should strengthen their internal controls and ensure that contracts and procurement procedures are properly implemented. it is also important to ensure the full independence of the staff and experts of the agencies. the commission should provide parliament with detailed criteria to ensure the independence of the staff recruited. i agree that each agency should develop multiannual work programmes in its representative areas, based on the union strategy for which it is responsible. such a work programme is important in enabling the agency to better organise its activities, to provide a sound risk assessment of its activities, and to organise the implementation of its strategy more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament postponing its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors again delivered a negative opinion in its report on the legality and regularity of the operations carried out. the college has consistently failed to comply with the requirements of the financial regulation relating to public procurement rules. a large proportion of the college's general budget is involved in a number of irregularities. the court identified major shortcomings in the administrative and financial rules governing the expenditure which constitutes the bulk of the college's operating expenditure on the organisation of courses and seminars. i agree with the rapporteur that it is unacceptable that the revised financial regulation of the college has not yet entered into force and that therefore all the contracts of employment signed were illegal. in order to enhance transparency, the college should provide direct access to its budget, which should include a list of its decisions on contracts and procurement and should be made publicly available on the college's website.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to give discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has assessed the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out under those accounts. i welcome the centre's intention to carry out a mid-term review of its strategy for 2008 to 2012. i agree with the rapporteur that the centre should continue to improve its performance evaluation, improve the interfaces between the strategic actions provided for in the programme of activities and revise the performance monitoring indicators to meet the smart criteria. the centre should also take more effective measures in response to the continuing increase in its budgetary expenditure.
in writing. − i have given my consent to this report and to the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european centre for the development of vocational training. the court of auditors assessed the agency's 2009 financial statements as reliable and the financial operations on which they are based as legal and regular. the centre plans to provide the h. gantt tables with data on all the main areas of activity in 2011. these tables can be used to determine the time each employee devotes to a specific project and to encourage the use of a results-oriented approach. in 2009, the centre started to apply the performance evaluation framework for the 2009-2011 medium-term objectives and to evaluate its annual work programme. the introduction of this system will make it easier for the centre to manage and assess its effectiveness, efficiency and relevance. i agree with the rapporteur that the institution must continue to improve its programming and monitoring of activities and to respect the principle of annual recurrence. in addition, the centre should better comply with the principles of budgetary specificity and transparency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has assessed the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out under those accounts. in 2010, the agency adopted its multiannual work programme for 2011-2015. this document is important for the agency to be able to organise the implementation of its strategy and to achieve its objectives effectively. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year of the discharge with those of the previous financial year, in order to enable the european parliament to better assess the agency's performance in different years. the agency should develop its annual work programme to include specific and measurable objectives at both policy and core activity level. the agency should also address shortcomings in the recruitment planning.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. however, the agency should address its operational planning deficiencies in order to ensure that budgeting procedures are sufficiently rigorous in the future and that the amount of appropriations entered in its budget lines does not have to be increased and/or reduced. the agency has also not yet drawn up a multiannual work programme. therefore, i consider that the existing comments should be taken into account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the discharge for the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has assessed the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out under those accounts. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should consider using a gantt chart for the planning of each of its operations, in order to quickly identify how much time each employee has devoted to a specific project and to encourage the use of the results-oriented approach. the agency should also apply an activity-based structure when establishing the operational budget in order to clearly link the work programme and financial forecasts and to improve the monitoring and reporting of operations. the agency shall provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year of the discharge with those carried out in the previous financial year, in order to enable the european parliament to assess more effectively the centre's activities in different years. in addition, the agency shall attach to the budget of each year a report on unused appropriations carried over from the previous year, explaining why those funds were not used and how and when they will be used. the agency still has shortcomings in its staff selection procedures which threaten the transparency of those procedures. i agree that the agency should inform the european parliament of the steps it has taken to remedy this situation and to make the selection procedures more transparent.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. is concerned, however, that the needs of the agency, its staff and the financial regulation were not sufficiently coordinated, and in particular that the staff selection procedures hindered the recruitment of appropriately qualified staff; therefore, i consider that the existing comments should be taken into account.
in writing. − i have given my consent to this report and to the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european centre for disease prevention and control. the centre is an important institution for the improvement and development of european disease surveillance, the assessment and reporting of existing and emerging risks to human health from infectious diseases. the court assessed the centre's 2009 financial statements as reliable and the financial operations on which they are based as legal and regular. i agree with the rapporteur that the centre should provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year in which the discharge is given with those carried out in the previous financial year, in order to enable the european parliament to assess more effectively the centre's activities in different years. i also agree that the mandate of the centre should be increased, that the union should have an independent body to assess the risk of infection in the event of a pandemic and that coordination of action by the member states should be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the discharge for the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has assessed the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out under those accounts. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency needs to reduce the proportion of appropriations carried over (29% of total appropriations carried over) in order to respect the principle of annual periodicity. i welcome the agency's initiatives to strengthen customer orientation and feedback procedures, and the fact that the agency conducted a stakeholder survey in 2009 and increased support to businesses. the agency should also further improve its planning and monitoring of public procurement and budget implementation in order to reduce the share of appropriations carried over. it should be noted that the agency has committed itself to reducing the carry-over of unused funds to future years and to achieving a significant reduction in those carry-overs compared to 2008.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. however, the court notes that the difficulties encountered in implementing the it system and the lack of qualified staff delayed the implementation of the main activities. therefore, i consider that the existing comments should be taken into account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and the discharge for the european environment agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors assessed the agency's 2009 financial statements as reliable and the financial operations on which they are based as legal and regular. the agency shall provide reliable and independent information on environmental matters to all union institutions, member states and policy-making bodies. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year for which the discharge is granted with those of the previous financial year. the agency needs to improve its communication methods in order to increase the frequency with which its findings are presented through the media and to encourage public debate on important environmental issues. such measures may help to increase the transparency of the agency's activities and public interest in its work.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court notes that the budgetary procedures were not sufficiently rigorous and that this led to a number of budgetary transfers affecting a large number of budget lines (corresponding to 8% of the agency's budget), and in particular that some of these transfers resulted in a periodic increase or decrease in the amounts on the same budget lines and in the transfer of unused appropriations to other lines during the year. i therefore believe that the budgetary procedures should be more stringent, as a large proportion of the financial resources are union grants.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has assessed the reliability of the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out under those accounts. i agree with the rapporteur that the office needs to strengthen the planning and monitoring of budgetary processes relating to differentiated appropriations. the office needs to improve its budget management in order to reduce the high amounts of appropriation carryovers. the authority is also required to ensure that its consultations are of high quality and independent in order to ensure compliance with union safety standards and to ensure a high level of research and independence in addressing all issues that have a direct or indirect impact on food and food safety and plant protection.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2009. the court assessed the centre's 2009 financial statements as reliable and the financial operations on which they are based as legal and regular. i support the centre's initiative to manage a computerised 'european drug and drug addiction information network' for the collection and exchange of information. this network links national drug information networks, specialised centres in the member states and information systems of international organisations cooperating with the centre. i agree that the centre should consider using the gantt chart in the planning of all its activities in order to quickly identify the time each staff member devotes to a specific project and to encourage the use of a results-oriented approach. i also think it is important to ensure that the centre improves its programming and monitoring of activities in order to reduce the carry-over of appropriations to subsequent years. the initiative of the centre to submit the annual internal audit report of the internal audit service to the european parliament is to be welcomed as a sign of good practice and transparency.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the centre's accounts for the financial year 2009. meanwhile, the centre's budget for 2009 was 2,25% lower than the 2008 budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has assessed the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out under those accounts. i agree that the agency should consider the use of a gantt chart in the programming of each of its operations, in order to provide a concise indication of the time each staff member has devoted to a particular project and to encourage a results-oriented approach. the agency shall provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year for which the discharge is granted with those carried out in the previous financial year, in order to enable the european parliament to better assess the agency's performance in different years. the court of auditors again identified a high level of carry-overs in 2009 and the agency must continue to improve its budget planning and monitoring to minimise the level of carry-overs. the agency should also take measures to address any shortcomings in the staff selection procedures which threaten the transparency of the procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the discharge for the 2009 financial year in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency. court of auditors the agency's 2009 financial statements were judged to be reliable and the financial operations on which they are based to be legal and regular. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency needs to strengthen its internal controls to ensure that contracts and procurement procedures are correctly implemented. the agency shall also be kept regularly informed of its financial procedures and the responsibilities of the relevant financial officers and operators. there are still shortcomings in the agency's staff selection procedures which threaten the transparency of those procedures. the agency should remedy this situation and inform the european parliament of the action it has taken. i also agree that the agency should carry out ex post controls with the help of professional staff.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to give its consent to the closure of the accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2009. however, the court did identify irregularities in the procurement procedures, in particular in relation to the assessment of the insufficient budget of the framework contract. the agency's budget for 2009 was 3.5% lower than the 2008 budget. i think we need to correct the shortcomings that we have.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the discharge for the european railway agency in respect of the financial year 2009. the court of auditors informed the european parliament that it had received a reasoned assurance that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2009 were reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts were legal and regular. i agree with the rapporteur that the fact that the agency operates in two locations (lille and valence) implies additional costs. i therefore believe that the council must act to amend the decision requiring the agency to have two headquarters. i believe that the agency should provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year of the discharge with those of the previous financial year, so that the european parliament can better assess the agency's performance in different years. i welcome the fact that the agency, in the light of the court's observations, has introduced a centralised system for recording invoices for accounts receivable. this measure is necessary to ensure timely registration of all invoices and to avoid payment delays. the agency's initiative to establish an internal audit structure to provide support and advice to the director and the administration on internal control, risk assessment and internal audit is to be welcomed.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document, despite the fact that the committee responsible had decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2009. the agency's budget for 2009 was 16,6% higher than in the 2008 financial year. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. concerns have been expressed about the shortcomings in the procurement procedures identified by the court's audit, with cancellations and postponements of procurement, recurrent delays in payment and changes to the substantial work programme. the court found that shortcomings had been identified in the inventory of fixed assets, but notes that the agency had ensured that they would be corrected in the 2010 accounts. i think that the fact that the location of the fixed assets is not always known proves once again that part of the problems and the extra costs are caused by working in two headquarters. that's what motivated my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european training foundation. the court of auditors informed the european parliament that the annual accounts of the fund for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. welcomes the intention of the fund to improve the effectiveness of the vocational education and training systems in the fund's partner countries and to develop a common methodology with international organisations and bilateral donors in order to strengthen the role of the fund. i believe that the fund should provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year for which the discharge is being granted with those of the previous financial year, so that the european parliament can better assess the fund's activities in different years. i agree with the rapporteur that the fund must be more precise in its budgetary procedures. this would avoid a significant number of budgetary transfers. i also welcome the initiative of the foundation to submit to the european parliament the annual internal audit report of the internal audit service of the foundation.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2009. however, concerns have been expressed about the court's findings concerning the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures and the intervention of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) which opened the investigation (of/2009/0370) it is necessary to eliminate any shortcomings in order to achieve greater transparency and to remove any doubt about the functioning of the european training foundation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors informed the european parliament that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 were reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts were legal and regular. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year of the discharge with those of the previous financial year, in order to enable the european parliament to assess more effectively the agency's activities in different years. i welcome the initiative taken by the agency to develop projections for the safety and health impact of technological innovations in green workplaces by 2020. i think the agency should reduce the increased level of cancellation appropriations and inform the european parliament of the action taken. the agency shall pay particular attention to appropriations still unused at the end of the year, in order to provide for the possibility of using the unused funds to meet further financial and legal commitments.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to give its approval to the closure of the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2009. the court noted the shortcomings of the procurement procedure (the expenditure under the general procurement contract exceeded the maximum threshold). the agency's budget for 2009 was eur 15 100 000, an increase of 0,6% compared to the 2008 budget. i think it is essential that the european agency for safety and health at work addresses the shortcomings in its procurement procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document and in favour of the discharge for the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors informed the european parliament that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 were reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts were legal and regular. the agency does not have its own budget and is effectively integrated into the commission. i agree with the rapporteur that such a situation may be incompatible with the agency's statute and that the question arises whether the agency should be maintained in its present form and organisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the court of auditors informed the european parliament that the annual accounts of the fund for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. i welcome the intention of the fund to provide a comparison of the operations carried out in the year in respect of which the discharge is given with those of the previous year. this will help the european parliament to evaluate the fund's activities more effectively in different years. i believe that the ex post evaluation of the foundation's 2005-2008 operational programme is very useful for the foundation. this evaluation provides the fund with useful experience and recommendations for its tasks in the future planning phase. i agree with the rapporteur that the foundation needs to further develop the performance monitoring system it uses eurofound to ensure that the results of its performance monitoring are taken into account in management decisions and plans. i also believe that the foundation must take action to improve its evaluation and selection procedure in the field of public procurement and to avoid the repetition in the future of the evaluation errors and discrepancies identified by the court of auditors. the fund shall also ensure that the funds are used only when the appropriations have been approved.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the committee responsible has decided to give its consent to the closure of the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2009. the fund's budget for 2009 was eur 20 200 000, i.e. 3,8% lower than in the 2008 financial year. however, following an audit of one open tender procedure, the court identified evaluation errors and anomalies that affected the quality of the procedure. the fund must therefore take action to improve its evaluation and review procedure in order to avoid the recurrence of such errors in the future. it is regrettable that the court had to comment on the budget and financial statements of the fund, in particular because the initial preliminary reports submitted by the fund contained serious deficiencies which could be used as a basis for addressing the shortcomings of the financial organisation of the fund. i believe that the comments and concerns expressed must be taken into account and that appropriate measures must be taken.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document and in favour of the discharge for eurojust for the financial year 2009. according to the information provided by the court of auditors, eurojust's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. i welcome the agency's initiative to include key performance indicators in its 2010 chapter plans. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should inform the european parliament about these key indicators and their links with the objectives, budget and operational programme of eurojust. the linking of the indicators to the objectives, budget and operational programme of the agency will enable interested parties to better assess the performance of eurojust. it should be noted that the court did not comment on the level of appropriations carried over and cancelled in 2009. i welcome the fact that the agency has established measures to allow the market value of the products and services concerned to be assessed before the opening of the procurement procedure.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document, despite the fact that the committee responsible had decided to approve the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. i abstained because the court again found irregularities in the procurement procedures, as in the three previous financial years, and also in the planning and implementation of recruitment procedures, and the subsidy for the agency in 2009 was 6,4% higher than in 2008.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document and in favour of the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european agency for the management of the external borders of the member states of the european union for european operational cooperation. the court of auditors has stated that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the agency's management board adopted a multiannual plan for 2010-13 in june 2009 to help it better plan its activities and assess risks. i support the agency's initiative to start using the frontex operations management system in 2009 to better inform the agency's management board by providing it with data on the impact of the agency's activities. i also agree with the rapporteur that the agency needs to improve financial management in relation to the reimbursement of costs incurred by member states, identifying weaknesses and difficulties with those member states in order to find appropriate solutions in cooperation with them.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document, despite the fact that the committee responsible had decided to approve the closure of the agency's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. i abstained because i am concerned that the court has reported carryovers of appropriations which it has already reported in its 2006, 2007 and 2008 annual reports and particularly regret the high level of carryovers and cancellations since 2006. the court also reports that, for the second year in a row, the agency has made payments on the basis of unilateral grant decisions signed by the agency, although the rules in force do not provide for such a measure. the audit of 8 prefinancing cases for border services showed that 27% of the costs were overestimated. the operations completed in 2009 required more than 40 recovery orders to recover excessive advances. the agency's own budget for 2009 was almost 28% higher than the previous year. i believe that the comments and concerns expressed must be taken into account and that appropriate measures must be taken.
in writing. − i have approved this report and the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the european gnss supervisory authority. the court of auditors assessed the agency's 2009 financial statements as reliable and the financial operations on which they are based as legal and regular. i welcome the fact that most of the activities and assets related to the egnos and galileo programmes were transferred to the commission in december 2009. it should be noted that the figures for the authority's revenue were not included in the final budget for 2009. violations of the application of the selection procedures were also found. the agency should address those deficiencies and inform the european parliament according to the procedure laid down.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document, despite the fact that the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the european gnss supervisory authority for the financial year 2009. the authority's budget for 2009 was eur 44 400 000, 64% lower than in the 2008 financial year. i abstained because i regret that there are shortcomings in the staff selection procedures which threaten the transparency of those procedures. it is necessary to make the procedures transparent so that the activities of these agencies are not called into question in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document and in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2009 of the artemis joint undertaking. according to the information provided by the court of auditors, the company's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the joint undertaking is in the early stages of its activities and had not yet fully implemented its internal control and financial reporting systems at the end of 2009. it is essential to complete the successful deployment of these systems without delay. the company's utilisation rates for 2009 were 81% and 20% respectively. i agree with the rapporteur that the company is still in the initial phase of its activity and that the relatively low level of utilisation of payment appropriations is therefore understandable. i also believe that, given the size of the joint undertaking's budget and the complexity of its tasks, it should consider setting up an audit committee reporting directly to the governing board.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the responsible committee has decided to approve the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2009 provided for eur 46 000 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 8 000 000 in payment appropriations, with commitment and payment appropriations utilisation rates of 81% and 20% respectively. i believe that the joint undertaking is still in its early stages of operation and that the relatively low level of utilisation of payment appropriations is therefore understandable.
in writing. − i have given my assent to this report and to the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2009. as the court of auditors has informed, the annual accounts of sesar for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the joint undertaking is in the early stages of its activities and had not yet fully implemented its internal control and financial reporting systems at the end of 2009. it is necessary to complete the installation of these systems. i agree with the rapporteur that, given the size of the joint undertaking's budget and the complexity of its tasks, it should establish an audit committee which would report directly to the governing board. i also believe that the company needs to further improve its membership and co-financing provisions. i look forward to the clean sky joint undertaking accelerating the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the eu in the future, with a view to their early deployment.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the responsible committee has decided to approve the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2009. the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air technologies in the eu with a view to their early deployment. the joint undertaking is in the early stages of its activities and had not yet fully implemented its internal control and financial reporting systems at the end of 2009. the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2009 provided for eur 91 000 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 60 000 000 in payment appropriations, with a commitment and payment utilisation rate of 98% and less than 1%, respectively. i believe that the joint undertaking is still in its early stages of operation and that the relatively low level of utilisation of payment appropriations is therefore understandable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document and the discharge for the 2009 financial year of the joint undertaking set up to implement the joint technology initiative 'new medicines'. as the court of auditors has informed, the company's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the joint undertaking is in the early stages of its activities and had not yet fully implemented its internal control and financial reporting systems at the end of 2009. it is necessary to complete the installation of these systems. i agree with the rapporteur that the company needs to further improve the provisions on membership and co-financing and to complete the implementation of its internal control and financial information system. i hope that in the future the new medicines joint undertaking will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and contribute to more effective and safer innovative medicines produced by the pharmaceutical sector.
in writing. − i have approved this document as the responsible committee has decided to approve the closure of the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking was established in february 2007 with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process, in pursuit of the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the joint undertaking is in the early stages of its activities and had not yet fully implemented its internal control and financial reporting systems at the end of 2009. in contrast, the joint undertaking's final budget for 2009 provided for eur 82 000 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 82 000 000 in payment appropriations, with a commitment and payment utilisation rate of 97% and 1% respectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of discharge for the sesar joint undertaking. the court of auditors has informed that the annual accounts of sesar for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the joint undertaking is in the early stages of its activities and its internal control and financial reporting systems were not fully in place by the end of 2009. it is necessary to complete the installation of these systems. i agree with the rapporteur that the joint undertaking should put in place an integrated management system that allows the allocation of costs to specific works and the identification of the sources of funding for operational costs. it is also important to establish the conditions under which unused funds are carried over to the following year.
in writing. − i have approved this document because the committee responsible has decided to approve the closure of the company's accounts for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2009 provided for eur 325 000 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 157 000 000 in payment appropriations, with a commitment and payment utilisation rate of 97,1% and 43,2% respectively. the court confirmed that important steps had been taken in 2009 to establish control systems, but expressed concern that an integrated financial, budgetary and operational information management tool had not been developed by the end of the year. however, the agency informed that the financial frameworks were in place and applied as of may 2010. the occurrence of internal control failures must be addressed.
in writing. − i have agreed to this report because the committee considers that luigi de magistris, in giving the interview, has fulfilled his duties as a member of the european parliament and his political activity by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents. the attempt to prevent members from expressing their views on matters of legitimate public interest and concern and to criticise their political opponents by bringing legal proceedings against them is unacceptable in a democratic society and is contrary to article 8 of the protocol, which aims to protect the freedom of expression of members in the performance of their duties for the benefit of parliament as an institution of the european union. in the light of the foregoing and having regard to rule 6 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should uphold the immunity of mr luigi de magistris as a member of parliament.
in writing. - i have agreed to this report because bruno gollnisch's request for immunity does not rely on article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the eu and is not applicable in the present case. parliament shall apply its consistent principles when deciding whether to grant or waive the member's immunity. the committee responsible did not find sufficient precise and serious grounds to suspect that the action was brought with the aim of damaging the political reputation of the member. secondly, this case is not within the political sphere of bruno gollnisch's activity as an mep. the case concerned only the activities of bruno gollnisch as a member of the rhône-alpes regional council, which were of a regional and local nature and were different from those of a member of the european parliament. third, mr gollnisch explained the press release of his group in the rhône-alpes regional council, which had been the subject of the complaint, by stating that it had been prepared by the group of the national front in that region, including its head of communications. the application of the member's immunity to such a situation is considered inappropriate, as it would imply the application of overly broad rules aimed at avoiding interference with the activities and independence of parliament. it is therefore for the competent judicial authorities, and not parliament, to decide, in a manner consistent with all democratic guarantees, the extent to which the french laws on incitement to racial hatred have been infringed and the possible legal consequences. the committee on legal affairs considered all the arguments and recommends that the ep should not waive the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch.
in writing. − i have agreed to this document because, first, the committee responsible has not found sufficiently precise and serious suspicions that the action was brought with the aim of damaging the political reputation of a member. second, the case does not fall within the sphere of political activity of mr gollnisch as a member of the european parliament. the case concerned only the activities of bruno gollnisch as a member of the rhône-alpes regional council, which were of a regional and local nature and were different from those of a member of the european parliament. third, mr gollnisch provided an explanation of the press release of his group in the rhône-alpes regional council, which was the subject of the complaint. the application of the member's immunity to such a situation is considered inappropriate, as it would imply the application of overly broad rules aimed at avoiding interference with the activities and independence of parliament. it is therefore for the competent judicial authorities, and not parliament, to decide, in a manner consistent with all democratic guarantees, the extent to which the french laws on incitement to racial hatred have been infringed and the possible legal consequences. it should be noted that the ep, by adopting a decision to waive a member's immunity, simply allows the responsible national authority to hold the person accountable (provided that the activities and independence of the authority are not compromised) and that such a decision does not in any way confirm the member's guilt or express an opinion on whether certain actions or attitudes justify an investigation. the committee on legal affairs also considered all the arguments and recommends that the ep waive the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report because the objective of this agreement is to establish cooperation to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the development of integrated river basin management plans in line with international and european union standards. the prespa lakes basin (prespa park area) is located in the territories of greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) and albania. the first of these countries is a member state of the european union, the second has the status of eu candidate country and the third has the status of potential eu candidate country. albania and the octs have concluded a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu. the prespa park area is a natural area of international importance due to its geomorphological, ecological and cultural importance and its importance in terms of biodiversity. it is a vital habitat for the conservation of many rare and/or endemic species of fauna and flora, as well as globally endangered birds, a transition area and a zone where important archaeological and traditional heritage is protected. for these reasons, the three countries signed, with the eu's participation, on 2 february 2010 an agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area, which also requires the consent of the european parliament. to this end, the contracting parties have undertaken, individually and in cooperation, to take the necessary measures and to apply the best available techniques, in accordance with the principles of sovereign equality, territorial integrity, mutual benefit and goodwill.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations agreement to promote the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems. this agreement provides for specific measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in eu territorial waters more effectively. these measures are the standards on which member states should base their measures for the monitoring, control and inspection of ships flying a foreign flag and wishing to use their ports. the measures of this agreement could be applied not only to fishing vessels but also to vessels involved in fishing (e.g. transport vessels transporting fishery products). the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is an essential part of the common fisheries policy and the eu should be able to promote international cooperation in this area by taking an active and constructive part in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing through the implementation of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems. contracting parties that are port states shall apply this agreement to ships not flying their flags and seeking to call at or in one of their ports. it covers not only fishing vessels but also vessels intended for fishing-related activities, such as transport vessels which may be used for the transport of fishery products. it also establishes a broad definition of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing to cover the widest possible range of unregulated fishing activities. the annexes, which form an integral part of the agreement, specify the information to be provided in advance by a vessel wishing to call at a port of a contracting party, as well as the procedures for inspection, the handling of inspection results, information systems and training requirements. the contracting parties should cooperate to develop, through other relevant multilateral and intergovernmental initiatives, a system for the exchange of information which could be coordinated by the food and agriculture organization (fao) and to facilitate the exchange of information with existing databases relating to this agreement.
in writing. − colleagues, although lithuania is not a large country, the fisheries sector plays an important economic and social role for the small communities in my country. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing poses a serious threat to the sustainability of lithuanian fisheries. it depletes fish stocks, destroys the marine environment and puts honest fishermen at a disadvantage. in the baltic sea alone, 3800 jobs are threatened each year by illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. according to the pew environment group, lithuanian fishermen are losing more than eur 1.1 million a year to undeclared fishing. this is a very large amount of money considering the size of my country and the fact that these problems are avoidable. unregulated fishing is particularly damaging to the cod fisheries in the baltic sea, which are already in a bad state. cod is the most valuable fish in the baltic sea and most lithuanian fishermen depend on cod resources. unfortunately, our cod fishermen face a 40% rate of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. if illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing were to cease, cod fishing in the baltic sea could recover. however, this requires closing loopholes that allow illegal actors to profit from their activities. we must take stricter sanctions against lawbreakers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the eu has drawn up legislation which allows actions to be brought in other member states and countries to recognise mutually national court decisions, including the brussels i regulation, the european enforcement order, the small claims procedure, the european order for payment procedure. however, the adoption of a decision is only one part of the process; citizens and businesses must be given the right to seek effective enforcement of their judicial decisions. one of the prerequisites for effective implementation is that the courts must be able to act expeditiously as a temporary measure and order the debtor's assets to be disclosed and frozen. in the absence of such a measure, dishonest traders and other debtors may avoid their obligations by simply transferring their assets to the jurisdiction of another country, thus making it impossible for creditors to enforce court decisions effectively in the common market. the eu institutions have highlighted the need for an effective procedure for the freezing and disclosure of debtors' assets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's 2009 discharge report because it provides a better guarantee of the management of payments, especially where there is misuse of funds. the adoption of the european parliament's decision gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009 and sets out its observations on the relevant documents. i believe that simplification and shortening of the procurement rules is necessary to reduce errors and that difficulties in governance under the financial regulation and the cohesion regulations could be avoided by better aligning the eligibility requirements across the different policy areas through simplification, in particular in relation to the revision of the financial regulation; there is a need to ensure the stability of the rules and long-term management plans. it is regrettable that in its examination of the implementation of the 2009 budget, the court has again decided to focus more on energy and research policy than on transport policy. however, greater transparency, which can be achieved by providing taxpayers and budgetary authorities with the right information, and greater coordination of regional and transport policies are needed, as the potential added value of projects at european level is currently under-checked and funds are not being used optimally to solve traffic congestion, border crossing problems or difficulties due to missing connections.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the court of auditors shall each year submit special reports on the discharge to the commission. these special reports are essential for the consideration, modification and improvement of programmes and projects, as they can contribute to a more efficient use of human and budgetary resources. on the basis of these reports, the commission can take urgent action to address most of the shortcomings identified by the court. i was the rapporteur responsible for the working document of the committee on budgetary control on the european court of auditors' special report on 'improving transport performance on the trans-european railway axis'. i believe that the commission must take the necessary steps to adapt the railway infrastructure to make it suitable for trans-european services by creating missing links in border areas, replacing or upgrading/renovating old railway infrastructure, helping member states to reduce the various difficulties caused by different track gauges and providing the necessary financial assistance.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the court of auditors produces more and better special reports every year. it is a pity that, because of the rules in parliament, these reports do not always receive the political attention they deserve. these special reports are essential for the consideration, modification and/or revision of programmes and projects, as they can contribute to a more efficient use of human and budgetary resources. i welcome the commission's approach to these processes and its determination to take urgent action to address most of the shortcomings identified by the court in these reports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and the discharge for the 2009 financial year. the court noted that there were no significant errors in the payments. the court of auditors did not identify any significant weaknesses in the assessment of the compliance of the supervisory and control systems with the provisions of the financial regulation. the secretary-general of the european parliament confirmed that he had reasonable grounds to believe that parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the existing system of control and supervision had been put in place to ensure that the operations concerned were carried out in a lawful and orderly manner. i agree with the rapporteur that, in order to provide efficient services, parliament must find, with all the union institutions, the most cost-effective way of using financial and human resources, including any savings, and electronic means and methods. i think that the secretary-general of the parliament should propose measures to ensure that the use of the general expenditure allowances for members of the european parliament is transparent in all cases and that they are used for the purposes for which they are intended. i also support the idea of parliament having only one seat in the same area as the other institutions of the european union. at present, only the european council can decide to change this situation (and save some eur 160 million a year and significantly reduce the carbon dioxide emissions resulting from parliament's activities). the secondment of staff to the three ep posts should be further rationalised, better justified and controlled to avoid unnecessary secondments and costs.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document, despite the fact that the court's audit documents indicate that the supervisory and control systems, which are mandatory in all institutions under the financial regulation, functioned satisfactorily in the audit of administrative expenditure in 2009 and did not reveal any significant errors in the operations audited, and the secretary-general confirmed on 2 july 2010 that he had a reasonable belief that parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the existing control and supervision system had been used to ensure that the legality and regularity of the operations concerned were properly ensured. i believe that in the current financial situation it is essential that parliament, with all the union institutions, finds the most cost-effective way of using financial and human resources, including possible savings, and electronic means and methods, in order to provide efficient services. it is necessary to carry out a long-term review of the european parliament's budget, to identify future savings to reduce expenditure and to find the means for the effective functioning of the parliament as one of the legislative institutions in the long term. i also note that citizens have the right to know how their tax money is spent and how the union institutions and political bodies exercise the powers conferred on them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament postponing its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009. the council has not accepted any invitation to meet formally and formally with parliament's committee on budgetary control, responsible for the discharge procedure, or its rapporteur, to discuss matters relating to the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009. the council also refused to provide a written reply providing parliament with the information and documents requested by parliament. i agree with the rapporteur that the council should provide a full written reply to these questions to parliament's committee on budgets by 15 june 2011 at the latest, together with all the necessary documents. the council must also be accountable to the public for the funds entrusted to it and, in order to facilitate the exchange of information during the discharge procedure, it must follow the same procedures as the other institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the decision on discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009 is postponed. the reasons for the postponement of the discharge decision are: first, the council did not accept any invitation to meet formally and formally with the parliament's committee responsible for the discharge procedure or its rapporteur to discuss issues relating to the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009, second, the council refused to provide a written reply to parliament providing the information and documents requested by the council in the annex to the letter of 14 december 2010, signed by the rapporteur, and third, the parliament did not receive from the council documents such as a detailed list of significant budgetary transfers. i voted in favour of this decision because i firmly believe that citizens have a right to know how their tax money is spent and how the powers granted to them are used by the institutions and political bodies.
in writing. − i have given my consent to this report and to the discharge of the court of auditors for the financial year 2009. the court's accounts for the financial year 2009 were audited by an external audit firm, pricewaterhousecoopers. the extracts do not contain any significant comments concerning the court of auditors. i welcome the court's audit strategy for 2009-2012 and its priority objectives of maximising the overall impact of the court's audits and maximising efficiency in the use of resources. i hope that the court of auditors will make progress in this area. i agree with the rapporteur that the court should include more detailed information in its reports on agencies in the future, in particular with regard to the conclusions of the internal auditor's reports. i welcome the measures taken by the court to reform and continuously improve its work, in the light of parliament's call for greater impact, wider coverage and more reliable data from evaluations and audits. it should also be noted that the ratio of men and women on the court's staff has improved. disproportion between the levels of assistants, heads of departments and directors has been reduced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it gives the secretary-general of the court of auditors a statement of assurance that the court's budget for the financial year 2009 has been implemented. it is also important that the court is invited to consider the possibility of reorganising some members to be responsible for certain policy areas and others for groups of member states, if the national audit authorities do not want to control expenditure from the union budget effectively. it is also noted that the court could make use of this opportunity if the number of members of the court had effectively doubled in recent years, but the number of policy areas had not. independence, integrity, impartiality, competence and professionalism are the core values of the court of auditors, which i believe should be both emphasised and respected.
in writing. − i voted against the decision to grant discharge to the european economic and social committee in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. on 11 march 2011, the european anti-fraud office (olaf) decided to open an investigation into the misconduct of the eesc secretariat. i agree with the rapporteur that the eesc and olaf should keep the european parliament informed of the progress and results of the inquiry. the eesc must cooperate fully with olaf and provide its officials with all the support necessary to enable them to carry out their investigations. i believe that the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which is responsible for the discharge procedure, should closely monitor the decision on this issue in order to obtain additional information on the results of the olaf investigation to be taken into account during the 2010 discharge procedure. i also believe that the allegations made by olaf are damaging to the reputation of the european union, since they are directed against one of the institutions of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it gives the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee the assurance that the committee's budget for the financial year 2009 has been implemented. the european economic and social committee is urged to undertake a comprehensive review of expenditure in all areas of activity in 2011 as a matter of urgency, in order to ensure that all expenditure is recoverable and to identify areas where savings can be made, thus reducing the budgetary pressure during this period of austerity. it is worth noting that the court's annual report stated that no substantive comments were required following the audit by the european economic and social committee. the total commitment appropriations available to the european economic and social committee in 2009 amounted to eur 122 000 000 (eur 118 000 000 in 2008), of which 98,02% had been used, which is higher than the average commitment appropriations used by the other institutions (97,69%).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to approve the committee of the regions' implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors' annual report stated that no substantive comments were required following the audit. i welcome the fact that the committee of the regions updated its budgetary analytical monitoring tool in 2009, which has provided more detailed information on the committee of the regions' budget, facilitated the use of the committee of the regions' budgetary resources and identified areas for better management. i agree with the rapporteur that members of the committee of the regions must declare their financial interests and disclose information relating to their declared professional activities. the committee of the regions shall indicate in its annual activity report the follow-up to this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it gives the secretary-general of the committee of the regions a positive opinion on the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2009. calls on the committee of the regions to undertake, as a matter of urgency, a comprehensive review of expenditure in all areas of activity in 2011 to ensure that all expenditure is used to its full potential, with a view to identifying the funds that could be saved, as this would reduce the burden on the budget in this period of austerity. the committee of the regions' total commitment appropriations for 2009 were eur 88 000 000 (eur 93 000 000 in 2008), of which 98,37% were used, which is above the average for the other institutions (97,69%). in the meantime, the court of auditors' annual report stated that no substantive comments were required following the audit of the committee of the regions. welcomes the continuing high quality of the committee of the regions' annual activity reports and welcomes the inclusion in the report of follow-up measures implemented in the light of parliament's discharge decisions for the previous year;
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament's decision to give a discharge to the european commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2009. the edf is the main instrument for the provision of union development cooperation assistance to people in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and overseas countries and territories. the court considers that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs give a true and fair view of the financial position of the edf as at 31 december 2009 in all material respects. i agree with the rapporteur that the edf should be included in the eu budget, as this will strengthen democratic control and transparency of the allocation of funds, and will also give more coherence to the union's policy towards the acp countries. i also believe that the commission should pay particular attention to the monitoring and control systems in its review of the guidelines for budget support. the commission must strengthen monitoring and compliance in the preparation of annual reports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the european parliament postponing its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. in its report, the court of auditors gave a negative opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the agency's financial statements. the court of auditors identified errors in the procurement procedures, which represent a significant proportion of the agency's overall budget for the financial year 2009. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency needs to improve the quality of its procurement procedures in order to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors. the agency's internal audit service identified very serious shortcomings in the evaluation of medicinal products. i think it is unacceptable that the agency is applying the rules incorrectly and that there is therefore no guarantee that the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is carried out by independent experts. the agency does not properly comply with its code of conduct in establishing the principles and guidelines for the independence and confidentiality of the members of the management board and the committee, the experts and the agency's staff. the agency shall provide the european parliament with information on the measures it has taken since its establishment to ensure the independence of its experts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it postpones its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009 and postpones the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. the main reasons are: no formal call for applications, no detailed technical specifications prepared in advance, no precise definition of all the goods to be purchased in the technical specifications before the negotiations, no evaluation committee and no evaluation report. it is also necessary to address the shortcomings identified in the report, as the agency is an important source of union scientific advice, scientific recommendations, best practices in the assessment and supervision of medicinal products.
in writing. − i have given my consent to this report and to the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2009. according to the information provided by the court of auditors, the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. i agree with the rapporteur that the agency needs to improve its budget and staffing planning in order to eliminate the discrepancy between budget and staffing forecasts and to make progress in order to ensure that the evaluation of the proposals submitted is as realistic as possible. the agency shall inform the european parliament of the steps taken to improve the programming and monitoring of the agency's contracts in order to avoid the deficiencies reported by the court of auditors in the future. the agency shall take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations made by the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it gives the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights a positive opinion on the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. it goes without saying that of the nine recommendations made by the internal audit service following its audit of financial management, four have yet to be implemented by the agency. these recommendations concern financial decisions, the provision of information for accounting and control purposes, work programmes showing all available budgetary resources, and financial procedures and control lists. the agency shall take measures to implement these recommendations. the court of auditors has delivered a reasoned opinion on the reliability of the annual accounts of the european agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2009, in all material respects, and on the legality and regularity of the financial transactions underlying them. the court's observation that the agency could improve its budget and staffing planning relates in particular to the carry-overs of appropriations from one title to another, the high number of vacancies (21%) and the high amounts of appropriations carried over to the next year. the agency shall take all necessary steps to improve the situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the discharge for the implementation of iter and the budget of the european joint undertaking for fusion energy for the financial year 2009. according to the information provided by the court of auditors, the company's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the company is still in the early stages of its operations and has not yet fully implemented its internal control systems and financial reporting system in the financial year 2009. it is necessary to complete the installation of these systems without delay. the overall rate of utilisation of the company's payment appropriations was 65,3%. i agree that this is the start-up period of the joint undertaking and that the under-spending, as also mentioned in the court's 2008 report, is mainly due to the under-implementation of the euratom fusion programme. i agree with the rapporteur that there should be a provision for carrying over unused funds to future years. in view of the size of the company's budget, the company should set up an audit committee.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the court of auditors has informed us that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is in the early stages of its activities and has not yet fully implemented its internal control systems and financial reporting system for the financial year 2009. it is also necessary to recognise that there is a start-up period for the joint undertaking and that the under-spending is mainly due to the under-implementation of the euratom fusion programme, as mentioned in the court's 2008 report. the joint undertaking needs to amend its financial regulation in the light of the recommendations made by the court of auditors in its opinion no 4/2008 on this regulation. i believe that further improvements will be needed in relation to: exceptions to the application of budgetary principles, the role of vat, the establishment of an audit committee, delays in the payment of membership contributions, the conditions for granting grants, the transitional measures provided for in article 133 of the iter financial regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the commission proposal, which was tabled following the unprecedented floods that devastated large parts of pakistan last summer, aims to extend the autonomous trade concessions to 75 important products (mainly textiles and clothing) with the exception of one product (ethanol) which would be subject to a tariff quota.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the commission's proposal, which was tabled following the unprecedented floods which devastated large parts of pakistan last summer, aims to extend the autonomous trade concessions for pakistan to 75 products of importance to pakistan (mainly textiles and clothing) by exempting them from customs duties, with the exception of one product (ethanol) which would be subject to a tariff quota. however, even if the autonomous trade preferences for pakistan were extended for a period of 3 years, the commission did not carry out a full assessment of the proposed measures before adopting the proposal for a regulation. it should also be noted that the commission proposal does not impose any obligations on pakistan in the field of human and social rights, as would have been the case if it had been granted gsp+ status. while it can be argued that the proposed measures will not create a binding precedent due to the particular circumstances that led to the decision to grant autonomous trade preferences to pakistan, this explanation is not entirely convincing. on the contrary, it can be assumed that similar initiatives may be taken in the future following the decision to grant autonomous trade preferences to flood-affected pakistan. in addition, the adoption of autonomous trade preferences, which are not linked to any human rights conditions, risks undermining the current eu preference system, which is based on respect for fundamental rights and values.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the eu to rethink its long-term trade agenda. we cannot pretend that some of the emerging economies to which the eu gives special status are the same as they were ten years ago. some of these countries (e.g. brazil, russia, argentina, saudi arabia, qatar) are currently the most economically strong. meanwhile, countries like lithuania are trying to make ends meet. if pakistan were to be given preferential treatment for textiles, as proposed in this report, lithuania would be placed at a disadvantage textiles account for almost 6% of our total exports. in addition, the eu should pay greater attention to the human rights situation of its trading partners. respect for human rights and democratic principles must be a fundamental element of the eu's trade policy. these are things that cannot be compromised. i am therefore concerned about the commission's proposal to grant autonomous trade preferences to pakistan. the eu has an interest in pakistan's stability and prosperity, but in the context of the crisis we should set our priorities in the right way. as the events of the past few weeks have shown, pakistan remains a hotbed of terrorism and extremism. the eu should be careful not to send the wrong message.
in writing. − prior to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the member states of the union were mainly governed by bilateral agreements, in particular on investment with third countries. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, foreign direct investment has become an exclusive competence of the eu and an integrated part of the eu's external trade policy. i agree with this report, which provides for a transitional period to transfer this competence to the eu level, which will in future ensure a high level of investor protection against arbitrary actions by third parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the eu's common foreign trade policy has become one of the areas of the eu's overall policy in which the eu has exclusive competence. in this way, investment policy, as an area of the common foreign trade policy, must also be coordinated at eu level. currently, member states have bilateral investment agreements with third countries that are partly convergent but often contradictory, which hampers the objectives of the eu's common foreign trade policy and the image of the eu as a single trading area in international and global trade. the main objective of this report is to ensure a smooth transition from an investment policy pursued by individual member states to a common eu investment policy, while ensuring legal certainty for all parties and participants in existing agreements during the transitional period when the old legal regime is replaced by the new regulation. this communication deals in essence with two main issues: the transitional timetable and the cases and procedure for the withdrawal of the authorisation granted by the commission to a member state to negotiate with third parties during the transitional period.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the regulation proposes to establish a power for the commission to withdraw authorisation and to require member states to renegotiate or terminate dis (bilateral investment treaties) and to obtain the commission's consent before negotiating new dis. it also sets out the conditions as to how, when and what can be negotiated. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, foreign direct investment was included in the list of areas falling under the common commercial policy. pursuant to article 3 (1) (e) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union has exclusive competence in the field of the common commercial policy. only the union can therefore adopt legally binding acts in this area. member states themselves may do so only if they are empowered by the union in accordance with article 2 (1) of the treaty. the union's exercise of its competence in developing a common investment policy, the main objective of which is to provide the best possible investment protection for all investors in the member states and to ensure a level playing field for investment in third country markets, will further develop this relationship. as the new investment policy will be developed taking into account the existence of bilateral investment agreements between member states during the transitional period, it should recognise the rights of investors covered by those agreements and ensure legal certainty. the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that all existing bilateral investment agreements between member states are gradually replaced by new eu-wide agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. at the international donor conference in october 2008, the european commission committed up to eur 500 million in aid to georgia. the sources of financing shall include funds provided under the financial envelope of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) and under crisis response measures such as the stability instrument, humanitarian aid and macro-financial assistance. the georgian economy is beginning to recover from the double shock of the august 2008 military conflict with russia and the global financial crisis. however, the balance of payments and budgetary position remain weak and fragile, due to the blockade of most direct trade with russia and a significant decline in foreign direct investment. i support the provision of eur 46 million in financial assistance to georgia, which will reduce the financial vulnerability of the economy in the short term and at the same time support reforms aimed at a more sustainable balance of payments and a more stable budgetary position.
in writing. − the european parliament endorsed the council's decision to grant georgia part of the eu funds provided for in the european commission's commitment. before adopting its decision, the commission assessed the economic situation and the financial prospects of georgia for 2010-11, with particular attention to balance of payments and budgetary needs. the commission considers that the request to mobilise the second tranche of the 2008 macro-financial assistance is justified. the new macro-financial assistance should help georgia to overcome the economic consequences of the conflict with russia and the global crisis. the new macro-financial assistance should contribute to the implementation of the government's economic reform agenda and policy measures to improve the management of public finances, which were initiated in the previous process of granting macro-financial assistance and eu budget support to individual sectors. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament's decision to support the commission's proposal for an additional eur 46 million in macro-financial assistance to georgia. this is a significant contribution to the country's commitment to european integration and will help to mitigate the double negative impact on its economy of the military conflict with russia and the global economic and financial crisis. in order to enhance the sustainability of this assistance, the commission should actively contribute to its proper absorption, in particular through measures to promote economic and financial integration into the eu, in order to contribute to the acceleration of the conclusion of a comprehensive and complete free trade agreement between the eu and georgia. another instrument with a strong stabilising and reform-enhancing effect is the visa dialogue. the eu-georgia agreements on visa facilitation and readmission, which entered into force on 1 march 2011, are a welcome first step. i hope that the commission will shortly present an assessment of the implementation of these agreements so that discussions can begin on the further course of cooperation on visas by the next meeting of the eu-georgia cooperation council.
first of all, i would like to emphasise that the response to the migration problems that have arisen should remain within the framework of the schengen agreement. schengen law also currently provides for the possibility of temporarily restoring internal border protection in the event of a threat to public policy and security, and these provisions are indeed fully sufficient. could the commission therefore explain more fully the additional cases for temporary extension of border protection provided for in the commission's communication on migration, which are formulated in a very abstract way in the communication and whose scope is in fact too narrowly defined? does this mean that the european commission is attacking the leaders of the two largest states of the european union and is seeking to destroy one of the european union's greatest values - free space and free movement? i would also like to comment on the content of the communication, since it seems that the communication was written for the sole purpose of addressing the increased immigration flows from the north african countries. does the commission not think that the content and substance of a document entitled 'migration communication' should be much broader?
one of the causes of the chernobyl disaster was a design error and a failed test of the reactor under extreme conditions. a quarter of a century later, the tragedy in japan forced us to test the safety of existing nuclear facilities. i have no doubt that the european union's power plants will pass these tests, or at least pass them. however, in the case of accidents at such facilities, the damage to the environment and to people does not stop at national borders. the whole of europe learned that lesson well 25 years ago. therefore, the tests must also be carried out at nuclear power plants outside the european union. two power plants are currently being planned in the vicinity of the european union's borders, one in belarus and the other in the kaliningrad region. unfortunately, it seems premature to talk about any kind of resistance testing for them. in their case, even the environmental impact assessment was not properly carried out, all concerns were not addressed, and a system of compensation for environmental damage was not established. moreover, the construction of the belarusian power plant is planned in the area where the largest earthquake in the history of belarus with a magnitude of 7 occurred. the european union as a whole, both the commission and the member states, must therefore act in solidarity to ensure that power plants planned in the european union's neighbourhood are subject to the same resistance tests as those applied to power plants in the european union. also that, through the mediation of international organisations, atena, the espo convention secretariat, the project promoters provide clear and reasoned answers without delay on the choice of sites, environmental impact, compensation and evacuation plans. only then can we be sure that we do not have to evacuate 100,000 people, this time within the european union.
this is a very important debate, but i think it's too late. the nuclear disaster at chernobyl continues to have devastating consequences not only for the people of ukraine but also for those of neighbouring countries. the people of lithuania are still paying for this disaster with their health; its effects will also be felt by future generations. sadly, the fukushima disaster showed that in those 25 years, the world had failed to make an objective assessment of the nuclear threat for the sake of material gain. we have been told for years that nuclear energy is the cleanest and safest, but in the event of a disaster, we see that the consequences are devastating, that they will be felt for generations, and that the cost of such consequences is incalculable. the nuclear safety issue needs to be fundamentally reviewed. the commission's initiative to introduce load testing in nuclear power plants in the european union is welcome, but such control must become systematic and permanent rather than episodic in order to minimise the likelihood of accidents. the lessons of the banking crisis show that no single institution or sector can effectively self-regulate and self-monitor itself. i think you will agree, commissioner, that it is therefore essential that a nuclear security policy be drawn up and monitored as soon as possible at european union level. we must have our own european union position vis-à-vis third countries which intend to build nuclear power stations right on the european union's external borders. we need to know what action will be taken if the nuclear power plants fail to meet the requirements of the load tests, and many other questions.
member of the commission. − in reply to the first question, access in areas of libya where military operations are taking place is limited but we still – thanks to the courage of humanitarian workers – have been able to reach two affected populations in misrata as well as in the contested cities in the coastal area. where we have not been able to reach affected populations is in the western part of libya under the control of gaddafi. we are also very concerned that we are now seeing an increase of libyans fleeing the country. out of the 740 000 people i mentioned today, some 50 000 are libyans and it is their number that is growing, facing us with an additional challenge to help these people. most of them are moving to live with host communities in tunisia and in egypt. we now have to find a way to support these communities. as far as the ceasefire is concerned, we have been calling for a ceasefire to allow safe access for humanitarian assistance and, of course, we very much support the un in this regard. i can assure you that we are in constant contact with the un and the unhcr so that we can deploy assistance when a window of opportunity opens up, as we have now done on numerous occasions, for example in the case of misrata. there was actually a separate question on the coordinated response. may i continue with an answer to this question? we have made significant progress in advancing work on the communication on strengthening the eu disaster response that was unanimously supported by the council at the end of last year. our intention is to actually accelerate work on implementing this communication with an eye to setting up a 24/7 european emergency response centre by the end of this calendar year. it will be built on the basis of the current mic – the monitoring and information centre – and also on the basis of the emergency teams of humanitarian assistance that existed in echo. it will have the physical capability to operate on a 24/7 basis. over the last year, especially in the context of the response to the haiti disaster, the pakistan floods and today in response to libya, we have built very strong and effective working relations with the eu military staff in the european external action service to the point that now eu military staff designate liaison officers as part of our humanitarian operation, so we can make sure that we plan and execute together as one. to give a straightforward answer to your question: yes, we are making progress. unfortunately, due to the events of the last year, we have faced exceptionally difficult circumstances in 2010 – and also this year – that have given a very strong impetus to advance this work.
member of the commission. − the european union is one of the major donors of food assistance. the commission has been committed to providing leadership in ensuring that the most vulnerable people in crisis have access to safe, adequate and nutritious food. the commission does not implement aid operations itself. it provides funding to partner organisations – the un agencies, international ngos, the red cross family – or partners who have vast experience in carrying out aid operations among the most vulnerable people. our implementing partners have the authority to decide what the most appropriate food assistance needs are in any specific circumstance. we encourage them to purchase food locally as much as possible. why? because, by doing so, they provide useful assistance to local farmers and we do not end up feeding the people yet, at the same time, killing the livelihoods of the local farmers by providing our own food. the commission is always validating these choices and making sure that factors, such as the availability and nutritious quality of commodities, dietary habits of the local populations, availability of cooking facilities and cost considerations, including transportation costs, are taken into account. on that basis the exact composition of our food assistance will be determined. obviously canned food has its advantages, including canned fish, because it can hold for a prolonged period of time and is therefore suitable for managing stocks. it also has some disadvantages, which are sometimes related to costs or dietary habits in local populations. so we always have to be sure that what we are doing is helping people in the most effective way.
member of the commission. − the point you are making is very valid. we need to look at high nutritional value and also simplicity of use. at the same time, what i would like to caution against is expanding the intervention of the commission in deciding up front what exactly should be the composition of food assistance in any given circumstance. we have taken a very important leadership role in the european union with regard to food assistance by untying our food assistance or, in other words, not making it a requirement that european food assistance includes food produced in europe. sometimes agricultural surpluses from europe are used in food assistance. we do require that food provided to people in any circumstance is the most appropriate for the particular circumstances. and why do we do that? when we untie our food aid, this allows our partner organisations to purchase food locally and provides an incentive for local farmers. we do not end up bringing food from europe, killing the livelihoods of local farmers and then giving them development assistance and actually bringing even more food because we have been unwise in our approach to food assistance. i can assure you that, globally, what europe has done in this respect is seen as the right thing to do and we are applauded by people in developing countries and by our development partners for taking this approach to food assistance. having said that, we also support prepositioning of food, in which case canned fish is very appropriate. i can assure you that we strive to do the right thing. when it is the right thing we of course encourage it to be done. you are very welcome to visit our services – we are always very happy to interact with the european parliament.
member of the commission. − what the council conclusions gave us a mandate to do is to work towards the establishment of european civil protection capacity that is predictable and ready for immediate deployment, based on our member states dedicating modules that we can mobilise and transport to where they are needed immediately, as the disaster hits. where we are today is actually quite impressive because we already have 104 modules that member states have registered with us and we have their commitment that we can mobilise and deliver assistance in a predictable manner, as long as they do not need these modules to fight the same disasters at home. we still have work to do in identifying the gaps and how we are going to fill these gaps. for that we will do the prudent work and then come to our authorising environment, to the council and to parliament, for your approval of the approach we are proposing to fill gaps. what is advancing faster than anticipated last year is the creation of the european emergency response centre. i can assure you it would make a big difference because it would allow us to accelerate work on scenario planning – what kinds of disasters we have to be prepared for, and also on modelisation of the committed member states’ assets. the words that made a difference were ‘voluntary commitment from member states’. but once that commitment is made, these assets belong to the community and they are deployable by us.
member of the commission. − both agriculture and forestry can, of course, play an important role in achieving the eu’s climate objectives, and non-co2 greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture are actually included in the eu’s effort sharing mechanism, but emissions and removals of co2 related to land use, land-use change and forestry (what we call lulucf) are not part of the current reduction commitment as adopted back in the 2008 in the climate and energy package. however, as part of the package, the commission was requested by the european council and parliament to assess modalities for their inclusion in the eu reduction commitment by mid-2011, and to make a legislative proposal as appropriate. so the commission plans to publish the relevant communication this summer, i.e. in a very short time from now. inclusion could strengthen the environmental integrity of our climate commitments, ensuring that all emissions and removals are covered, while enhancing the visibility of efforts by farmers and foresters to increase sinks through sustainable land-use management. the current cap includes instruments that address climate change, mainly through the multiple co-benefits between agri-environmental policies and climate action. pillar one provides income support to farmers who have to respect cross-compliance – a concept that includes baseline obligations, some of which are relevant to climate action. rural development policy in pillar two makes more targeted climate-change measures available to member states. the 2008 health check reconfirmed climate change as one of the major challenges to be addressed, and already measures in relation to forestry – for example, afforestation – can be supported under the rural development policy. a reformed cap with a greener first pillar, introducing non-contractual and annual environmental actions that go beyond cross-compliance, and a second pillar more focused on climate action, supported by a professional farm advisory service, could be tailored towards helping farmers to manage their land-use systems so as to contribute to climate action (mitigation), and also become less vulnerable to climate change (adaptation). that is definitely what we intend to achieve through the next cap.
member of the commission. − basically i think that we agree. you use the word ‘compensation’. i prefer to say that we should have the common agricultural policy move more towards a situation where there would be some help available for people who are delivering something to the common good. it thus becomes a much more tangible and more concrete option for farmers to move in the direction of doing something for the climate, for water quality, or whatever, so that we get more value for the subsidies that we give to agriculture. that is, at least, the thrust of our thinking in the commission.
member of the commission. − the european union has for a long time been a promoter of gender equality. in support of this, the commission has a well-established practice for widespread consultation both within and outside the commission. in particular, the consultation of all commission departments allows for consideration of gender equality aspects of all legislative proposals and other initiatives, including in relation to climate change. the commission recognises the serious social impact upon women of climate change, as well as the important role of women in combating climate change. the commission, back in october 2009, called for there to be a platform for women to make their voices heard, in particular as agents in the fight against climate change. in addition to this, the commission is working closely with member states and the eu presidencies for the development of indicators for the follow-up at eu level of the 12 areas of concern of the so-called beijing platform for action. in this respect, in the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015, the commission has designated the development of indicators in the area of women and the environment among the priorities of the future work of the european gender equality institute. we also understand that in the first half of next year, the danish presidency wishes to develop indicators in this field with a particular focus on climate change. a report is to be prepared by the european gender equality institute and specific conclusions could be adopted by the council on this issue towards the end of the danish presidency semester. so climate change and women is very much on the agenda.
thank you for your comprehensive answer. a couple of years ago the commission announced that the main security threat now is climate change and that mankind has approximately 10 years in which to make the changes reversible. i personally am of the opinion that the economic crisis, revolutions in north africa and now fukushima have distracted attention from the fight against climate change. do you have this impression as well?
, in writing. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, as we see today, the stress test carried out last year on banks operating in the member states of the european union did not reveal the real situation in this sector. the irish example showed that this verification was not reliable in principle. this year, we also ran a slightly improved test, and we're all waiting for the results. i believe that in order to restore the confidence of eu citizens in the banking and financial system in general and to ensure the credibility of the european financial institutional structure, a much greater mandate and a more important role must be given to the newly created european banking authority. i believe that the verification tests should be carried out systematically and cover as wide a range of risk elements as possible, which vary from one member state to another. the european banking authority should also establish clear procedures and be able to provide banks with binding decisions if the audits reveal financial instability or unreliability in the banks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 89/396/eec of 14 june 1989 on indications or marks identifying the lot of a foodstuff. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document which aims to codify council directive 80/181/eec of 20 december 1979 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement and repealing directive 71/354/eec. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 70/157/eec of 6 february 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound level and exhaust systems of motor vehicles. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 87/402/eec of 25 june 1987 on roll-over protection structures for wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors fitted in front of the driver's seat. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 86/415/eec of 24 july 1986 on the installation, positioning, operation and identification of controls on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 76/432/eec of 6 april 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 80/720/eec of 24 june 1980 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the working space of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, access to the driver's compartment, doors and windows. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 86/298/eec of 26 may 1986 on the construction of rear overturning protection structures for narrow-track wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council directive 92/79/eec of 19 october 1992 on the harmonisation of taxes on cigarettes, council directive 92/80/eec of 19 october 1992 on the harmonisation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes and council directive 95/59/ec of 27 november 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. codification is an effective means of consolidating the legal provisions governing a given area in a single act. this provides greater clarity, as different provisions governing the same issue are often enshrined in different acts. as they are being amended, it is difficult to understand which provision is currently in force. codification is the appropriate instrument for making european union law simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of fibre composition of textile products. with the adoption of this resolution europe has achieved a unanimous commitment to protect consumers through the indication of the country of origin and the adoption of a new mechanism for traceability of textile products. we, members of the european parliament, today adopted a joint declaration, which aims to protect european consumers from false or misleading claims on the origin of the products. i strongly believe that the resolution and declaration will give a major impetus towards the creation of a mechanism of providing accurate information to consumers, particularly with regard to the exact origin of the products purchased. eu citizens must have the right to know the place of origin and quality level of products and textiles that they purchase.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it aims to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products, to stimulate innovation in the clothing and textile sector and to develop and consume new fibres. i agree that a proper balance should be struck between a high level of consumer protection and the simplification of the regulatory framework for textiles. the extension of mandatory labelling should not place an undue burden on undertakings without bringing real added value to consumers who may be confused by the excessive information on the labelling of textile products. i think it would be useful for the commission to report to the european parliament and the council on the possible introduction of new labelling requirements at union level. consumer perceptions on the amount of information that should be included on the labelling of textile products should be examined and it should be analysed which additional means, other than labelling, could be used to provide consumers with additional information.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products, thereby encouraging the development and use of new fibres and better protecting consumers. as for the final text, still under negotiation with the council, the european parliament's report proposes to single out issues such as the origin marking of textile products imported into the eu, which would make it compulsory to indicate on the label not only the country of origin of the manufacturer of the final product but also the country of origin of the imported textile products used in the product, as is already the case in canada, the usa, china and japan. in general, the communication proposes to include as much information as possible on the composition of the product on the labels and to oblige the commission to examine whether imported products are not harmful to human health as a result of their composition, in order to improve consumer protection. however, at the same time, the notification proposes to remove any unnecessary administrative burden for the producers of goods. for example, it is proposed to replace labelling with language-independent symbols as far as possible, so that fibre names do not have to be translated into several eu languages. it is also proposed to exempt self-employed seamstresses from the application of this future regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it proposes to lay down rules on certain products containing non-textile parts of animal origin. the origin of the products shall also be indicated precisely. in particular, this regulation should provide for requirements to indicate non-textile parts of animal origin in the labelling or marking of textile products, in order to enable consumers to make a choice of goods on the basis of the information available. the labelling or marking should not be misleading and should be presented in such a way as to enable the consumer to understand easily which part of the product is described by the particulars.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the lithuanian textile and clothing sector is one of the most specialised in the eu and the largest with over 1000 enterprises employing 40 000 people. it is therefore important to me and to most lithuanians that the new textile labelling rules mentioned in this report help to protect the reputation of our textile sector. i hope that the new legislation will simplify the existing labelling rules. we also need reliable chemical tests to confirm the hygiene and environmental criteria of the textiles we produce. european consumers have a right to know what they are buying. any use of material of animal origin must be clearly indicated on the label of the textile product. the new textile labelling rules should help to stop consumers from buying textiles made from real fur or leather unconsciously. the fate of the lithuanian textile and clothing sector is closely linked to the eu: 84% of lithuanian textiles are exported to the eu. few people know that lithuanian textile manufacturers make uniforms for various military and police forces, including nato, throughout europe. lithuania has a long-standing tradition of providing quality assurance and quality control services to the public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european union has granted the western balkan countries the exclusive right to import virtually all goods into the eu market duty-free in unlimited quantities. the main objective of these measures is to stimulate the economies of the western balkan countries by facilitating their access to the eu market. in turn, economic development is promoted by political stability throughout the region. these trade preferences were granted for the period ending on 31 december 2010. i agree to extend the preferential provisions until 31 december 2015. the cessation of trade preferences would deprive the beneficiaries of the objective economic benefits of trade with the eu. this would have a negative impact on the overall economic performance of the western balkans, their internal reforms and the transition processes in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because regulation (ec) no 2007/2000 ('), has enabled the european union to grant duty-free access to the eu market to virtually all goods originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process, in exceptionally unlimited quantities. the main objective of these measures is to stimulate the economies of the western balkan countries by facilitating their access to the eu market. in turn, economic development is promoted by political stability throughout the region. these trade preferences are granted for a period ending on 31 december 2010 and are currently applicable, within the meaning of unscr 1244/99, to all products originating in bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo covered by regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. products originating in albania, the republic of croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and montenegro shall continue to benefit from the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 where so specified, or from other measures provided for in regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 which are more favourable than the trade concessions provided for in bilateral agreements between the european union and those countries. this proposal amends certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 in order to extend its validity until 31 december 2015 and to make certain amendments that have become necessary following the entry into force of the bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme. i agree with the rapporteur that if europe is to lead the world economy, it is essential that it has a single internal market with a focus on the services sector and the knowledge economy. the digital agenda and the digital economy can be the catalyst for the internal market to become a reality in all areas of our economy. this requires opportunities to become leaders in broadband and internet use. we must strive to make europe the best and do what is best for europe: unlocking spectrum for new services and increased mobile data flows, opening up new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services in the broadband space. the first radio spectrum policy programme (rspp) is an important step towards ensuring the efficient and optimal use of the radio spectrum resource. europe must lead this process of change and create the best possible conditions for a competitive european knowledge-based economy characterised by vitality, change and innovation. this requires access to the highest capacity and highest speed internet and broadband systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the digital agenda and the digital economy are among the key objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce the digital divide, increase european industrial productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and better access to the single market for eu consumers and businesses. europe is now lagging behind the us and china, which are freeing up large parts of the spectrum to enable the rapid development of new services and high-speed mobile broadband. the eu needs to promote the efficient use of radio spectrum to meet the growing demand for radio frequency use and to increase mobile broadband capacity, providing better opportunities for the public and commercial sectors. the digital divide needs to be bridged to ensure that all eu citizens have access to at least 30mbps by 2020. future spectrum policy must also ensure an appropriate, simple and non-discriminatory licensing system that creates a level playing field across the eu and promotes competition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because its aim is to make wireless internet, radio and television services as accessible as possible to businesses and consumers by freeing up radio spectrum. this would benefit european citizens in two ways: by facilitating access to modern means of communication and telecommunications, it would reduce the still existing segregation of eu citizens, especially those living in rural and peripheral areas, and it would boost the eu economy by creating a stronger foundation for the development of an innovative service sector and a knowledge-based economy. indeed, europe has set itself the objective of having broadband access for all eu citizens by 2013, and the most convenient and least investment-intensive way to achieve this is through the various wireless technologies available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because europe needs to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband. this must and can be done in the context of the current broadcasting conditions, ensuring the same opportunities for broadcasters as they have today and compensating for the possible costs of transition, if necessary. broadcasting and culture must be an integral part of the development of wireless services. today, europe is lagging behind, and the us and china are liberating large swathes of spectrum to enable the rapid development of new services and high-speed mobile broadband internet. we must seek and do what is best for europe: free up spectrum for new services and increased mobile data flows, open up new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services in the broadband space, and at the same time ensure broadcasters have the same opportunities as they have today. wireless broadband is essential to ensure that all citizens have access to new and innovative services. this objective is clearly not achievable through optical fibre, which requires a high investment to install, but it can be achieved through the use of various available wireless technologies to extend broadband coverage (terrestrial radio, cable, fibre or satellite systems) and provide services throughout the community, including rural and peripheral areas, allowing the market to choose the most efficient technology in terms of costs for operators and citizens.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important issue for lithuania. we have the world's largest network of public access points to the internet. my country has a population of 3.2 million people, of which 2.1 million are internet users. we also have one of the largest mobile phone penetrations. there is no doubt that this is a positive development. connecting with europe can potentially help persuade international companies to set up shop and invest in lithuania. other potential benefits include remote health diagnostics, smart energy networks and increased political accountability at local level. but let us not be distracted and lose sight of our priorities. according to this communication, the main objective of the radio spectrum programme is to provide all eu citizens with broadband by 2013 and a faster internet by 2020. but what about the millions of europeans living on the poverty line? 20% of lithuanians are living in poverty. that's too many for our people. there are families in my country and across europe who are struggling to feed and educate their children, and they don't even think about having a computer or being interested in high-speed broadband. the promotion of eu radio spectrum should not overshadow the needs of the most deprived in europe.
in writing. - i voted for the report. since the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's powers have been strengthened and it has become a co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure, attracting even more attention from representatives of various interest groups. in view of these developments and in this constitutional context, and in line with their transparency commitments, the european parliament and the commission have agreed to establish and maintain a common register to register and monitor organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies. those amendments require the amendment of the relevant rules of procedure of the european parliament which will be made by this communication.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament by creating a joint parliament-commission transparency register. i would like to emphasise that, since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's powers have been strengthened, since it has become one of the legislators in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure. these new developments have thus attracted even more attention from representatives of interest groups, who play a key role in the implementation of an open and pluralistic dialogue and are an important source of information for members of parliament in relation to the exercise of their mandate. in view of these developments and in line with their transparency commitments, the european parliament and the european commission have agreed to establish and maintain a common register to register and monitor organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies. this register is intended to ensure that meps are able to exercise their parliamentary powers without restriction and that their constituents are not prevented from entering the european parliament's premises.
in writing. − i have supported this document because the relationship between the european institutions and policy-makers on the one hand and civil society, citizens and representative associations on the other is regulated and promoted by the eu treaty, in particular by article 11 (1) and (2) thereof: 1.the institutions shall, by appropriate means, give citizens and representative associations the opportunity to express and exchange their views on all areas of union activity. 2.the institutions shall maintain an open, transparent and permanent dialogue with representative associations and civil society. since the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, parliament's powers have been strengthened and it has become one of the legislators in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure, thus attracting an even greater number of representatives of interest groups, which, moreover, play a key role in the implementation of the open and pluralistic dialogue on which the democratic system is based and are an important source of information for members of parliament in relation to the exercise of their mandate. in the light of these developments and in this constitutional context, the ep and the commission agreed to set up and maintain a common register to register and monitor organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of eu policies. it should be noted that the register must ensure that members are entitled to exercise their parliamentary powers without restriction and that their constituents are not prevented from entering parliament's premises. furthermore, it may not infringe the powers or prerogatives of the parties and affect their powers to organise their activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. this is a first step towards greater transparency in the work of the institutions and in ensuring the provisions of the union's public administration. the transparency register, as it will henceforth be called, remains optional, but individuals or organisations engaged in lobbying activities will be required to register if they wish to gain access to the european parliament. registered entities will also have to declare their financial sources and their interests and legislative proposals. this will increase transparency and provide more detailed information on individuals or organisations who approach members of the european parliament with certain questions or proposals. i believe that negotiations with the council should continue so that it can join the transparency register and become a common register for all three institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because transparency of political institutions is a necessary condition for their legitimacy. it is necessary to examine how decisions are made, which forces influence them and, finally, how the finances, i.e. taxpayers' money, are distributed. the rules governing lobbying are therefore a matter of legality. the european parliament is the first institution of the european union to have taken note of the growing number of interest groups operating at european level, and it is therefore necessary to examine all the possible consequences of this phenomenon. following the european parliament elections, a new working group of the european parliament and the commission was set up, which already approved the draft agreement on the establishment of the transparency register in november 2010. the new draft makes the register optional, but at present only registered representatives of interest groups are allowed on the premises of the european parliament. the single transparency register ensures the participation of a wide range of actors and provides more opportunities for non-commercial organisations to carry out their activities. i believe that this common register is another step towards greater transparency in the european union's institutions and, at the same time, greater trust in the work of the institutions by citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the transparency of political institutions is a necessary condition for their legitimacy. it must be easy to scrutinise how decisions are made, which forces influence them and, finally, how resources, i.e. taxpayers' money, are allocated. the rules governing lobbying are therefore a matter of legality. the results achieved are in line with parliament's objectives as set out in the main points: firstly, although the register is optional (parliament sought to make it compulsory), it can be considered de facto compulsory, as only registered representatives of interest groups are allowed access to parliament's premises on a permanent basis; secondly, the common register ensures the participation of a wide range of categories of entities and respects their distinct and specific identity. the new transparency register provides more opportunities for non-profit organisations to be included in it; thirdly, the new system contains additional information such as the number of persons involved in all activities related to the register and the eu funds received in the course of registration. the activities that may be covered by the register and the complaints procedure will also be clarified. i think it was necessary to approve the draft agreement on the establishment of a transparency register. the single register will be another step towards greater transparency in the european institutions and is likely to contribute to greater trust of european citizens in the european project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the proper functioning of the internal market depends on the stability of the financial system and the confidence of european citizens and consumers in financial institutions and transactions. the recent financial crisis has led to the collapse of many financial institutions worldwide, at great cost to taxpayers. i support the commission's initiative to critically examine the stability of financial institutions and the financial system as a whole and their regulatory and supervisory framework, so that a similar situation does not recur in the future and the financial sector meets the needs of the real economy and demonstrates the highest possible level of social responsibility.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's contribution to the debate on how to ensure more effective governance of financial institutions in europe. this debate is crucial in seeking ways to avoid a repeat of the global financial and economic crisis of 2008 and beyond. the failure of the sfcs has been and continues to be costly for taxpayers and it is therefore necessary to examine the causes of the problems that have arisen. in its report, the european parliament, in response to the commission's green paper on improving the governance of financial institutions, gives considerable attention to the need to regulate more strictly the appointment of persons in charge, the setting of criteria for the competence and aptitude test of members of the board of directors and the means of ensuring their independence. the communication also proposes to establish mandatory risk oversight committees at the level of company boards and calls for a requirement for financial institutions to disclose recovery plans and supervisory reports of the institution, as well as to prepare reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control systems and to include similar reports in the annual report prepared by the external auditor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the financial sector should respond to the needs of the real economy, help to promote sustainable growth and demonstrate the highest degree of social responsibility. it is important to note that the behaviour of certain financial market participants and institutions is characterised by a lack of values and ethics. financial markets and institutions should take into account the interests of all stakeholders, such as their customers, shareholders and employees, when implementing their corporate social responsibility policies. effective risk management is one of the key factors in preventing future crises. the commission considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that the measure is imputable to the state. i think it is necessary to set up compulsory risk monitoring committees or to provide for a corresponding structure. the risk should not be disproportionate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the eu-india free trade agreement. india is an important trading partner of the eu: in 2000, india was the 17th most important trading partner of the european union, and in 2010 it was the 8th. in addition, india is the largest beneficiary of the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) and european union imports from india under preferential tariffs or zero duties were worth eur 19,9 billion in 2009 and accounted for 83% of all eu imports from india. both sides hope to benefit greatly from the abolition of tariffs, trade in services and the liberalisation of business creation, but i have to agree with the disappointment expressed in the resolution at the slow pace of negotiations on a free trade agreement (fta). both parties should make every effort to conclude a comprehensive, ambitious and harmonised epa by 2011, as this agreement would provide opportunities to increase eu-india trade and investment, to develop business, and to increase eu-india combined exports and imports in line with the epa. i agree with the position expressed in the resolution that if eu-india economic cooperation is based on shared universal values, it can become a model for cooperation with other countries.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. after more than three years of negotiations, the eu and india have reached a crucial stage in the negotiations on a free trade agreement, with the finalisation of the negotiations on the most important sectors. however, some very important issues need to be resolved in a very clear way in the further negotiations. i believe that the most sensitive sectors in europe, such as industry, agriculture and the service sector, should be given special attention. india is one of the largest economies in the world, with a fast-growing service sector. it has a strong interest in entering the eu services market and therefore it is necessary to carry out a thorough assessment of how a free trade agreement could affect the eu services sector (and other important sectors) and employment. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that future trade policy is conducted in accordance with the objectives of the european union, including binding commitments on social and environmental standards, at all stages of the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because the eu is india's largest source of foreign direct investment. both parties expect to benefit substantially from the abolition of tariffs, trade in services and the liberalisation of business start-ups and reaffirm their commitment to lower tariffs and further liberalisation of business start-ups and trade in services. access to the market is restricted by non-tariff barriers to trade such as health and safety requirements, technical barriers, quantitative restrictions, conformity procedures, trade defence mechanisms, customs procedures, internal taxes, failure to adopt international norms and standards. the eu and india must commit to accelerating the negotiations on the tpp and to making substantial and effective progress towards a swift conclusion of an ambitious and coherent multilateral trade and investment agreement. both parties should make every effort to achieve a comprehensive, ambitious and harmonised gpa by 2011. the agreement must take account of the sensitive aspects relating to trade in agricultural products, but should not thereby impede the opening of markets in complementary areas. the commission should take due account of any negative impact on european agriculture, in particular in areas such as market opening, gmos, the dairy sector, the beef sector, the protection of intellectual property and the indication of origin. the commission should also negotiate effective and transparent procurement systems, and india should apply transparent and fair procurement procedures and provide access to procurement systems for european companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on eu-japan trade relations. the eu and japan are important partners and investors in each other's economies, with a combined volume of foreign direct investment of €200 billion in 2009. japan is the eu's sixth largest trading partner and the eu is japan's third largest trading partner. i agree that the time has come to conclude an eu-japan free trade agreement (fta), but before the negotiations can begin, japan must seriously commit to removing the non-tariff barriers that restrict european companies' access to the market, i.e. barriers to public procurement, insufficient recognition of international standards for medical devices and more favourable conditions for national leaders in financial services. the negative impact of non-tariff barriers means that the eu's bilateral trade with japan is smaller than most of the eu's trade with other major trading partners. i support the resolution's view that the eu and japan's gsps can benefit both countries and their economies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i fully agree that the eu can and must contribute to the accelerated recovery of the japanese economy following the recent devastation by the worst natural disaster in the country's history. the communication calls on the commission to develop a specific framework under which the eu, through various aspects of international trade, can continue to contribute to countries affected by natural disasters. in the case of japan in particular, the european parliament resolution proposes to exploit the opportunities offered by international public procurement and service markets, given the increased interest shown by the eu and its member states in these areas. many barriers to public procurement and trade services still arise from legitimate national regulation, and the report proposes to overcome these barriers by working towards a better understanding of the approaches of the mutual regulatory systems. however, the report points out that investment and trade in services must be included in discussions on trade with japan in order to ensure that further market opening does not conflict with either european or japanese rules on public services and environmental and cultural diversity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because in 2009 the eu and japan together generated more than a quarter of global gdp and were responsible for more than 20% of world trade, and japan and the eu are important investors in each other's economies. the council and the commission have noted that japan's ability to remove regulatory barriers to trade is a precondition for the opening of negotiations on an eu-japan free trade agreement (fta) to promote closer economic integration between the two strategic trading partners. a multilateral trading system based on wto principles is the most effective means of achieving open and fair trade worldwide. i believe that the european union and japan should contribute to the successful conclusion of the negotiations on the doha development agenda. the eu-japan fta would not only benefit from increased bilateral trade in goods and services, but also foster cooperation on eu horizontal priorities such as cooperation on innovation, regulatory cooperation and the fight against market abuse, as well as cooperation on a wide range of environmental issues, among others.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the commission's green paper on the protection and information of forests in the european union. deforestation and climate change the european parliament has endorsed the provisions set out in this green paper, but it is necessary to strengthen the eu's forest strategy, and this strengthening should be aimed at improving the management and conservation of forests, that this strategy should be directed both towards forest protection and towards the use of sustainable timber resources, as forests offer opportunities to address climate change. it should be noted that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the primary responsibility for the forest strategy should remain with the member states, but the european union should be more active in supporting, coordinating and complementing member states' actions in the field of forestry policy, taking into account the different regional conditions. this policy should be implemented in order to ensure the sustainable development of the forestry sector and contribute to improving the standard of living of european citizens and to promoting the development of rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. forests and woodland cover 42% of the eu's territory. the forest industry has a turnover of around eur 300 billion and creates over 2 million jobs, mainly in rural areas, thus contributing to economic growth, jobs and prosperity through the provision of timber and the creation of tourism opportunities. eu mice are facing major threats to their survival, including climate change, new pests, increased fire risks (especially in the mediterranean region) and human activities (increasing demand for wood biomass for energy), which are leading to their extinction. i agree that the commission and the member states need to do more to achieve the environmental and quality of life objectives of the eu action plan for the mushroom, which is currently lagging behind. the eu forestry strategy and the eu plan for mouse should also be updated to include the climate change dimension and broader forest protection issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's response to the commission's green paper on the launch of a public consultation on forest protection and forest preparedness for climate change across the european union. in its communication, parliament welcomes the commission's green paper and calls for an update of the eu forestry strategy, while taking due account of the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and incorporating the climate change aspect and other broader forest protection issues. parliament also reaffirmed its view that more resources should be allocated to forest protection measures under the rural development pillar of the cap, especially in the light of the new challenges posed by climate change. among other possible sources of funding, the report also proposes to consider the possibility of setting up payments to companies for ecosystem functions that contribute to the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of forests. amongst many other measures, such as strengthening coordination at eu level and the exchange of information between member states, the commission is also invited to consider the possibility of legislating a ban on building in areas where it has been proven that forest fires have been deliberately set.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because the eu's forests and other wooded land cover more than 42% of the eu's territory. forests are the livelihood of millions of workers, entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners. the forestry sector provides more than 2 million jobs, mainly to smes. 350,000 people work in forestry. the eu deforestation-to-growth ratio is stable at around 60%. in several member states, this ratio is expected to increase to more than 100%, leading to a decrease in the total volume of wood after 2020. european forests and forestry are managed according to different regional and national models, grouped according to their production and protection orientation. forests serve both as resources and as ecosystems. it is proposed that mandatory programmes be drawn up. the aid must also be targeted, i.e. linked to climate change. the proposals include: long-term competitiveness, environmental improvement and protection, improvement of the quality of life, promotion of coordination and communication. we must do everything we can to conserve and use this resource sustainably, so that our future generations can enjoy it, and to contribute to reducing environmental pollution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the ep’s annual report on the cfsp. it gives an overview of the strategic role that the eu should play outside its borders, in particular as regards the contribution to the development of democracy and respect for human rights. with this resolution the european parliament reaffirms its prerogatives: key player and holder of the function of management and budgetary control of european civilian and military missions. we, members of the european parliament, once again stressed our main objective of a strong and decisive parliament in foreign policy, particularly now having in mind the provisions of the lisbon treaty. also important is the eu multilateralism issue, and the need to be always well represented in the different strategic contexts, taking advantage in particular of the new eeas, the european diplomatic corps that has finally become a reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the lisbon treaty gave the eu a wide range of powers to develop its foreign policy ambitions and defend its interests worldwide, with the common objective of contributing to peace, security, the promotion of solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, respect for international law, etc. the eu also needs to take more coordinated action to exert its influence internationally. the union's ability to influence the international community will depend not only on the coherence of its policies, actors and institutions, but also on a strategic approach to eu foreign policy, which must aim to bring all member states together and convince them to share the same priorities and objectives so that their voices can be heard and have a say in the international arena.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the council's annual report provides a coherent overview of the direction and actions of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). it is essential that the council continue to pay particular attention to and respond actively to regional conflicts. however, this council report explores possible solutions to these conflicts and problems. the council should aim to make the report more than a summary of developments and developments in different countries. this document should therefore address the issue of the safeguarding and implementation of the european union's foreign policies and instruments. in addition, the council should include in the report assessments of the coordination and coordination of the cfsp and other areas of the european union's external policies. strategic and organisational guidance for the future should also be provided, based on an assessment of the cfsp activities. i would like to point out that the annual report on the common foreign and security policy should be a means of ensuring a closer interinstitutional dialogue in order to assess its effectiveness and define the future direction of this policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because it aims to bring national defence systems into line with eu defence systems. it would also coordinate strategies with key global players such as the us, russia, china, turkey and arab countries. the moratorium on the death penalty is emphasised and promoted. it also sets out the direction and objectives of cooperation with other countries. an effective multilateral policy should be a key strategic interest of the union and that, in this context, the eu should play a leading role in international cooperation, support international institutions, facilitate international agreement and advance action at the global level. there is an urgent need to address global issues of concern to all eu citizens, such as the fight against terrorism, organised crime, pandemics and climate change, cybersecurity, the achievement of the millennium development goals and poverty eradication, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, peaceful conflict resolution and disarmament, migration management and the promotion of human rights and civil liberties, drawing attention to the need to better monitor the use of eu funds under the european court of auditors special report no 15/2009. it is considered that the eu should take advantage of the new nato strategic concept adopted in parallel with the development of the eu's foreign and defence policy in order to significantly strengthen the eu-nato partnership. i think we need to establish a common organizational relationship.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this month lithuania celebrates seven years since joining the eu. when we joined, most lithuanians dreamed of democracy and what europe could offer. unfortunately, seven years later, most of their expectations have not been confirmed either at lithuanian or european level. one of them is foreign policy. recently, several european leaders gathered to celebrate the triumph of democracy and the fall of the dictators of the arab world the triumph of european values. unfortunately, that's not true. the eu's efforts to unify its foreign policy have not been very successful. the lisbon treaty was supposed to help europe find a common voice on foreign policy, but last week we saw yet another example of the eu's lack of coherence in foreign policy: after the killing of osama bin laden last monday, the eu's top leaders issued at least five separate statements in the 24 hours following the attack. if europe is to remain a serious player on the world stage, we must speak with one voice. the eu must also choose its foreign policy priorities correctly: a focus on the south while neglecting our eastern borders is not a sustainable policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the development of the common security and defence policy following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. it is important to stress that the new csdp introduced by the lisbon treaty provides a firm political statement about the union’s intention to act as a force for stability in the world. i support the position that current economic austerity and the provisions of the lisbon treaty may help member states towards smarter spending on defence by pooling and sharing a larger proportion of their defence capabilities, budget and requirements while achieving more security for their citizens, although the reality is that the economic and financial crisis affects eu national defence budgets, programmes and force structures and therefore, more than one year after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, there are not yet clear signs of a post-lisbon eu holistic approach enabling traditional procedural and institutional barriers to be overcome. therefore, it is important that member states find appropriate means for the implementation of the csdp as the lisbon treaty provides a framework for upgrading cooperation on defence whilst achieving economies of scale, maintaining strategic relevance and providing security for the union’s citizens.
in writing. − the international system is changing rapidly and fundamentally. these developments are driven by the growing power of international actors in emerging economies, increasing interdependence linked to economic and financial challenges, environmental degradation and climate change, dwindling energy and other resources, and interlinked security challenges. i voted in favour of this important report. in an unstable global environment, with the economic and financial crisis, the european union must strengthen its strategic autonomy, uphold its values, defend its interests and protect its citizens. a common vision of the key challenges and threats must be developed, and the capabilities and resources must be focused on addressing these challenges in an appropriate manner, thus contributing to the maintenance of international peace and security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union should continue to strengthen its security strategy, to promote its values, to defend its interests and to protect its citizens, and to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. the new provisions of the common security and defence policy (csdp) enshrined in the treaty of lisbon provide a clearer legal framework for strengthening the implementation of the foreign and security policy, using all the instruments at the disposal of the european union and its member states to prevent, manage and build lasting peace in crises and conflicts. in implementing the foreign and security policy of the european union, it is important to ensure that the various areas of its external action and the orientations of its external and internal policies are mutually consistent and coherent. i would like to stress that a credible external security policy requires closer cooperation, mutual trust and solidarity between member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the international system is undergoing rapid and fundamental change, driven by the growing power of international actors in emerging economies, increasing interdependence linked to economic and financial problems, environmental degradation and climate change, dwindling energy and other resources and interrelated security challenges. in a volatile global environment of economic and financial crisis, the european union is called upon to strengthen its strategic autonomy, to promote its values, to defend its interests and to protect its citizens to develop a common vision of the key challenges and threats, to concentrate its capabilities and resources to address these challenges effectively, and thus to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, including effective respect for the principle of multilateralism. strengthening the eu's strategic autonomy in the field of security means the ability to agree on common political objectives and strategic guidelines, to establish strategic partnerships with relevant international organisations, including nato, and states, to gather the necessary information and to develop joint analyses and assessments, to mobilise and, where necessary, pool financial, civilian and military resources, to plan and conduct effective crisis management operations in the context of wider-ranging missions of the petersburg type, to define and implement a common defence policy, laying the first concrete foundations for the development of a common defence. it is necessary to use all the means at the disposal of the eu and its member states to prevent, manage and build lasting peace in crises and conflicts.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it sets out a vision of how the eu could become a strategic force of its own for security and stability in europe and the world. the lisbon treaty has given the eu's security and defence policy more scope. this policy has become more integrated into the eu's foreign policy. the eeas makes a major contribution to the security of the eu. in preparing the report, our socialist group received the support of the majority of the groups for the eu's need to become an independent security actor, for the need to revise the concept and structure of combat groups in eu mixed civil and military missions. our group also won general support for calling on the eu to urgently improve the planning process for humanitarian aid missions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of maría muñiz de urquiza’s report on the eu as a global actor and its role in multilateral organisations. i would like to stress once again the need to better coordinate actions of the eu member states in the un and, in particular, in the un human rights council. we consider that the new institutional structure of the eu and establishment of the directorate for human rights and democracy in the eeas system and brussels-based cohom office offer good opportunities to increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of the eu actions in the unhrc. finally, in the ep we welcomed the recommendation by the unhrc and subsequent decision by the un general assembly to suspend libya’s membership of the unhrc. following efforts and actions made by some member states in the hrc, today syria has stated that it is withdrawing its candidacy to become a member of the unhrc. taking into account these examples and our common experience in the past with the un human rights commission and since 2006 with the un human rights council, we suggest that clear membership criteria should be introduced in the unhrc, and the eu should stand firmly behind this initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the processes of globalisation offer many opportunities, but also raise problems and threats to global governance. global challenges such as financial markets, energy security, the fight against poverty, climate change and human rights violations require joint and coordinated action. the treaty of lisbon gave the european union a legal status that enhanced its participation in various international organisations and enabled it to assume a stronger and more influential position in the world. until now, the eu and its member states have been represented inconsistently in international organisations, which has prevented the eu from speaking with one voice in the international arena. the eu must become a global player with a strong voice and a strong position to defend. this requires stronger coordination within the eu, which will require strong political will from the member states and their flexibility in terms of their representation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the number of political and humanitarian crises in the world has increased dramatically and there is a need for better and more preventive multilateral action by the european union. the eu should make increasing use of its foreign policy instruments to ensure its role in multilateral organisations and to take a more active role in dealing with current and future global crises. in addition, there is a need to involve non-state actors more in the formulation of multilateral policies, and to promote and facilitate better consultation of civil society organisations and social partners in the future governance structure of international organisations. the european union should play an active and leading role in the reform of global governance by strengthening cooperation, improving institutions and involving all stakeholders. this will ensure that international institutions and organisations are more legitimate, effective and more rigorous in their enforcement of common obligations. given that the eu is one of the leaders of the global economy, the arrangements for the eu's representation in international institutions in the areas of economic, monetary and financial stability should be reviewed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the eu's membership of multilateral organisations brings additional benefits in areas where it has exclusive or shared competence: economic and trade, environmental policy, development aid, security and defence policy. whereas the treaty of lisbon, by introducing the legal status of the union, strengthens the union's participation in the various international organisations, confers on it greater powers in the field of external action, namely the creation of the office of vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service (eeas), gives the union a clearer and stronger voice in the world and promotes all forms of mutually beneficial eu cooperation with important international and regional organisations and groups of states, and whereas it confers on the union the right to organise itself in order to become an effective global actor; i believe that the representation of the eu and its member states in multilateral organisations, informal summits and international regimes has been inconsistent, often ineffective and, to date, very different. i also believe that eu member states should rely more on the eu as a force for their own purposes, which they cannot achieve alone, and that speaking with one voice not only increases their chances of success in achieving the outcomes that matter to them, but also strengthens the eu's legitimacy and credibility as a major international player in the emerging multipolar world, without, of course, losing its identity.
i think we can all agree that one of the main driving forces of the modern world is information. this rule also applies to food safety. we will consider and hopefully adopt new rules on the provision of general food information to consumers, as well as on specific issues such as fruit juices and their products. unfortunately, after failing to reach a compromise with the council on novel foods, we took a step back. most consumers don't want food from cloned animals, but the reality is that they do exist. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the public is informed. but the reasoning behind the difficulties that could arise for business, for producers, for the representatives of the states, was not in favour of labelling, not in favour of traceability, that is, minimum requirements on how we can ensure consumer awareness. the consumer was thus left with no way of knowing whether, for example, the milk he drank was from cloned animals. but that is only one side of the coin. secondly, the introduction of new technologies, research and the use of their results in the food industry is prevented. we have put off solving these problems indefinitely. we all look to the european commission to come forward with proposals quickly to help close this legal gap.
the small business act of 2008 was intended to give a boost to its development and to improve business conditions in europe. much has been done to improve its environment and simplify administrative requirements, for example with the adoption of the directive on electronic invoicing or the directive on late payment. but that's not enough. today we see that the results are not what small businesses had hoped for. key priorities such as financing, simplification of regulatory frameworks, improvement of the business environment are not being implemented in a systematic and consistent manner. and the business environment varies widely across member states. the different legal regimes for the protection of consumers' rights that have survived to date reduce consumer confidence in the single market and discourage businesses from developing their activities in other member states. this in essence prevents the creation of a more business-friendly and favourable internal market in the european union. the economic and financial crisis has hit small businesses hardest. we see companies that are going bankrupt or are heavily indebted. we had measures in place to help them, but unfortunately they did not always work out. the commission's 'progress' microfinance facility was indeed a very appropriate step to provide access to finance for small businesses in times of crisis. however, as various studies have shown, in some member states, national banks have made the conditions for granting loans even more stringent than they have been in the case of business loans. the european investment bank, which administered these loans for two years, had no data at all on the implementation of this measure. the question is, why do we need such a mediator at all? the conclusion is clear that the responsibility for monitoring the implementation of such important initiatives in the member states should in future be assumed by the commission. i hope that this review of the small business act will help us to better understand and assess where we need to put more effort in order to create a better working small business environment in practice. the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
thank you very much for asking. in fact, how we plan to transform our society, and who will have to deal with the very core issues of not just small but big business in the future, is a fundamental priority for our future. the erasmus programme you mentioned is also very important, and i think that the commission, the council and the european parliament should make much more effort in the future to ensure that such programmes are not undermined and that in the future we have people, better prepared people, who will implement many of the theoretical wishes we have expressed here today. after all, theory needs to be put into practice. i fully agree with you that parliament should not support the reduction of such programmes in the future.
i would like to add my congratulations to my colleague for his excellent report. the european union is at a crossroads. on the one hand, we need to address the problems of the crisis immediately, and on the other, we need to take action now to find the appropriate response and to meet our long-term commitments to address challenges such as climate change, energy security, food security, an ageing society and others. in today's global context, innovation policy has a major impact on all areas of life and will become a key pillar of the european union's economic, cultural and social development in the future. so far, this policy has been fragmented and more focused on academic research than on turning innovative ideas into real and applicable products or services that would stimulate growth and job creation. i support a comprehensive approach to innovation policy and believe that we need to work together to develop a strategic, integrated and practical european union innovation policy.
i wanted to say a few words about the 'jewish youth' initiative. the aim of this initiative is very attractive, as mobility will be used to improve the education and training of young people and to facilitate the transition from education to the labour market. this is particularly relevant today for young people, who are one of the social groups most affected by the global financial crisis. youth must be helped to enter the labour market to secure their future and contribute to economic growth and prosperity. young people must be given opportunities to develop competencies, skills and knowledge that they can use in the future to actively contribute to the growth and sustainable future of our european union. i think it is equally important to ensure that the education received is in line with the needs of the labour market. it is also important that the opportunities for european young people to develop and contribute to the prosperity of the european union are not reduced in the future. there are also some problems with mobility. young people who have completed their education in another member state often remain to live and work there. as a result, a country like lithuania, whose economic situation is not easy, risks losing for a while the educated people who are the basis of the country's growth, not only in economic terms. it is true that this is an internal problem that we will solve ourselves. and it's very good that we're trying to address a problem that's relevant to young people today.
the process of early childhood education is one of the most important responsibilities of both parents and state institutions. in this context, it is important and appropriate that the resolution stresses the importance of early teaching of regional and minority languages. the mother tongue is especially important, since it is the language in which children form their thoughts and acquire knowledge. therefore, it is unacceptable to introduce in the schools of indigenous national minorities, teaching in a non-native language of some subjects from the first or second grade, as recently passed in the lithuanian parliament. the forced introduction of bilingual subjects is clearly perceived by the local poles living in lithuania for seven centuries as discrimination that should be put to an end.
, in writing. the european commission's communication on early childhood education and care is a welcome initiative, as it addresses the problems of child development and aims to identify ways of helping children to prepare for the future. however, in my view, this commission document lacks research and data analysis on the education, care and social protection of children, taking into account data from all 27 member states of the european union. i would also like to highlight the close link between socioeconomic disadvantages and early childhood education and training opportunities, as low-income families have significantly less access to early childhood education and care. these factors often delay the arrival of some youths to school or to work. while i understand the commission's efforts to encourage the exchange of good policy and practice examples between member states through the open method of coordination, it would be much more useful and efficient to develop and adopt common quality criteria. this would encourage data collection and benchmarking across the member states of the european union, as data collection is essential for monitoring progress and measuring achievements. i would like to point out that the data gap is most acute in relation to children from families with social problems, children with special needs and children on social support.
i am pleased that we have today endorsed the proposals for the resolution 'youth in jerusalem: a framework for improving european education and training systems', as this resolution provides clear recommendations and clarified guidelines that the countries of the european union can and should follow in order to improve education and training systems. i would like to highlight a few aspects, however. first, given that the 'youth in the city' initiative aims to achieve the europe 2020 headline target of reducing the proportion of out-of-school children from 15% to 10% by 2020, there is a lack of measures and recommendations aimed at raising the competence, qualifications or prestige of the profession of teachers. we must clearly recognise that the teaching profession is the profession that creates the greatest social value and we must strive to ensure that european countries have the best teachers. i strongly support the call in the document. i would urge the commission to present a comprehensive strategy to promote non-formal education and to link the main recommendations of this document directly to the multiannual financial perspective.
i would like to respond to the misinformation which was made during the debate this morning by one of the members, mr tomasevski, who said that children of the polish minority in lithuania could not be taught in polish. as you know, there are about 200 000 lithuanian citizens of polish origin in lithuania, 62 schools with polish-language instruction and 34 schools with polish classes. in germany, on the other hand, where 2 million people of polish origin live, there are no public schools for poles. it should be noted that only citizens of polish nationality in lithuania can receive education in polish from kindergarten to university. it's a unique case in the world. lithuania is the only polish university abroad with a branch of the university of bialystok. 42 per cent of lithuanian national minorities surveyed believe that insufficient knowledge of the lithuanian language is an obstacle to their ability to compete in the labour market. it is strange to hear complaints about the lithuanian education law, which is analogous to the one applied in poland, and i would like to ask a rhetorical question: does mr tomaševskis think that ethnic minorities are also being abused in poland?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the crisis has had a particularly negative impact on young people . the unemployment rate for young people in the european union is over 20% (twice the average rate for adults), and in some member states it exceeds 40%. the economic and financial crisis has led member states to reduce investment in education and training, which will have a direct impact on the future prospects of young people and the future of the eu. investing in education is essential for sustainable growth and development, and even during the economic crisis, funding for youth programmes and education must be seen not as a cost today but as an investment in europe's future. i believe that the 'youth in jerusalem' initiative of the europe 2020 strategy can contribute to strengthening education, mobility and youth employment programmes and encourage member states to pursue the europe 2020 goals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it recognises the need to overcome practical obstacles and barriers to mobility, and to continue to promote the recognition of time spent abroad and qualifications acquired in other eu countries. it is also recognised that people with disabilities face even greater barriers to mobility than those who are healthy and that additional measures should be put in place to ensure that they have the same opportunities as everyone else. students with families (e.g. raising children) should also be given additional support to overcome the specific challenges they face in studying in another country. good quality mobility is essential for intercultural learning, personal development and multilingualism of young people. the emphasis is on employment as the ultimate goal, and indeed employment is not just a matter of education but also of youth activism and active citizenship. active citizenship and the development of core competences, non-formal education and the strengthening of european civil society should therefore continue to be promoted through existing programmes. to make this new strategy more than a concept, it is essential that member states commit themselves to providing financial support and implementing it at national level and that the eu budget is adjusted accordingly. member states should see this as a long-term investment not only in the education of young people, but also in their own future well-being and that of the eu as a whole.
in writing. − the european union is plagued by high levels of youth unemployment. in some places, it is as high as 21 percent. that's more than twice the average adult unemployment rate. i voted for this report because it provides guidance on how to improve youth education and reduce youth unemployment. i agree with the report that it is very important to focus on the development of new programmes that allow young people to combine work and study. this is especially true for students who are seeking an education but who need to support themselves financially. one of the key objectives of the programme is to reduce the number of people who are out of school, which subsequently puts them at risk of unemployment and social exclusion. support for people with disabilities and young people who have started families needs to be increased to enable them to participate in mobility programmes and to take advantage of this opportunity to combine education, work and personal life. mobility programmes should be available not only to university students but also to young people and students with lower levels of qualifications. young people also need to be provided with more practical knowledge and experience in organising compulsory traineeships of good quality.
in writing. − colleagues, building a secure future for our young people is one of the issues that is closest to my heart. unfortunately, the prospects for young people in lithuania are rather bleak at the moment. lithuania's youth unemployment rate is 34%, almost 14% above the eu average. according to eu statistics, there are only two other eu member states with higher youth unemployment rates than lithuania. and even those young lithuanians who manage to find work are often forced to accept unfavourable employment contracts. we need to make more efforts in three key priorities: first, to promote entrepreneurship; second, to improve the employment opportunities of young people by adapting education to labour market needs; and third, to enable young people to play a more active role in society. the 'jewish youth' initiative is one of the platforms that can help to promote youth employment. working and studying abroad can be beneficial for lithuanian youth and our country. but it is much more important to give our young people a european future in lithuania. this can be achieved by increasing contacts between young people and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). this would stimulate the demand for young people among sme employers and, accordingly, encourage young people to work in smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. early childhood education is the foundation for successful lifelong learning and is essential to achieve the europe 2020 targets of creating a knowledge-based society, increasing employment and reducing early school leaving and poverty. however, these goals cannot be achieved unless all children are given a decent start in life. member states need to invest more in ensuring that all children have access to a quality early childhood education, which can help to reduce early school leaving, tackle under-education of children from vulnerable social and cultural groups and reduce the resulting social inequalities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because early childhood (pre-school age) is crucial for the cognitive, sensory and motor development and acquisition of language skills of the child, and provides the basis for lifelong learning; it is therefore recommended that member states consider making it compulsory to send a child to a nursery for one year before he or she starts school. the use and support of innovative pedagogical models for language teaching, in particular the establishment and support of crèches and kindergartens, are therefore encouraged, in line with the objective set in barcelona in 2002, which includes the teaching of regional, minority and neighbouring languages. despite the economic instability, there is a need for significant investment in early childhood education and care services. i think that member states should allocate sufficient funds to pre-school education and care services. quality early childhood education can help to reduce school dropout rates, combat the under-education of children from disadvantaged social and cultural groups and reduce the resulting social inequalities, as these affect the whole of society. young people from vulnerable social groups are particularly at risk. we must take care of future generations and the quality of their education.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the protocol to the partnership agreement with the islamic republic of mauritania expires on 31 july 2012. the fisheries sector is of vital importance to the mauritanian economy, accounting for 10% of the country's gdp and 35%-50% of mauritanian exports, and the commission intends to open negotiations on its relaunch. i am in favour of updating this protocol, but there are many important issues that need to be addressed. the assessments carried out show that many of mauritania's fish stocks are fully exploited or depleted and the commission should therefore discuss with mauritania the possibility of drawing up long-term fisheries management plans covering all fishing authorisations granted by the mauritanian authorities to the national fleet and to third country fleets, in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because mauritania is one of the poorest countries in africa, a very indebted poor country, financially dependent on foreign aid and marked by high political instability. the current protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with the islamic republic of mauritania expires on 31 july 2012 and the commission intends to open negotiations for its renewal and has therefore requested the council to grant it the necessary powers. the ep welcomes the commission's proposal to open negotiations on the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania, but stresses that this protocol should only be renewed if it is mutually beneficial, properly adapted and properly implemented. the ep also welcomes the commission's proposal to include a human rights clause in the agreement.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. an efficient functioning of the public procurement market is of particular importance for promoting the integrity of the single market, for innovation and for achieving optimum value for money and efficiency for public authorities and taxpayers. this market is a vital part of the eu economy and has great potential, but the rules and principles of public procurement vary across member states and generally do not allow companies, and in particular small ones, to participate in crossborder public procurement. similar restrictions exist for participation in public procurement by third parties. despite the fact that the eu has opened up its markets, our companies face major problems in accessing public sector markets in third countries. i think that this is a matter that urgently needs to be given a great deal of political attention. the commission should examine in detail the problems associated with restrictions on eu companies' access to markets in other countries and take appropriate action on trading partners that benefit from the openness of the eu market but do not open their markets to eu companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because a well-functioning public procurement market is crucial to fostering the single market and innovation. in particular, in order to overcome the financial and economic crisis and to guard against future crises, public procurement is of great importance as a catalyst for the recovery of the eu economy and thus of employment and prosperity in the eu. the specific issue of equal treatment and fair competition in public procurement in the eu and third countries, i believe, urgently needs more political attention, especially in view of the current problems of access to third country public sector markets. in my view, the commission should give priority to modernising public procurement rules and to addressing the issue of service concessions in a way that avoids further fragmentation of eu public procurement legislation, in line with the principles of better regulation.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the high oil prices have affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector and put european fishermen in a difficult situation. moreover, the european union's high dependence on imports from third countries (60%) means that producers have little or no influence on the price level of fishery products. i agree to increase the aid ceiling of eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per undertaking for a transitional period of three years, while ensuring that environmental and social sustainability are not harmed and that competition between member states is not distorted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the recent increase in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector and has caused many fishermen to worry about how to offset these additional costs, as oil price increases have a direct impact on fishermen's income. it is necessary and necessary to make full use of the margins available in the community fisheries budget and to finance special emergency support measures for the industry, thus enabling it to overcome the difficulties caused by the increase in fuel prices, pending the implementation of other types of measures. the european fisheries fund (eff) should continue to provide support to improve the selection and adaptation of fishing gear on the basis of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy requirements, in particular for small coastal fishing companies and traditional fishermen. in my view, the commission must urgently come forward with proposals for investment in new technologies at european and national level to increase the energy efficiency of fishing vessels and thus reduce fishermen's dependence on fossil fuels.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the eu has 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which account for approximately 99% of all eu enterprises and create more than 100 million jobs. they play a key role in ensuring economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, and are a key source of innovation and vital for maintaining and increasing employment and contributing to the achievement of the key objectives of the eu 2020 flagship initiative. the small business act of 2008 was a significant political step to improve the business environment for smes, to ensure better and simpler regulation and to facilitate market access. however, smes still face serious problems in developing their activities, their innovative capacity and their access to markets, in particular difficulties in obtaining financing and administrative barriers, which need to be further reduced. member states should implement all provisions of the small business act as soon as possible in order to create a consistent and transparent business environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it welcomes the commission's review of the small business act and supports new proposals to further facilitate access to finance, market uptake and reduce red tape by strengthening governance and monitoring through smart regulation. i believe that member states should immediately agree to the remaining proposals on the statute for a european company limited by shares, which would allow smes to trade throughout the eu, reduce costs and stimulate growth in this area, and support the 25% reduction in administrative burden in the small business act, which would contribute to the effectiveness of the small business act, prevent protectionist economic policies in member states and promote eu-wide business. member states need to implement the revised late payments directive to effectively tackle late payments and their negative impact, in particular on smes. member states should also avoid 'over-regulation', i.e. going beyond the requirements of eu legislation set out in the directives they transpose. the administrative burden is greater the smaller the enterprise disproportionate and erroneous provision that reduces the creation of smes, it is necessary to differentiate between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that small businesses should be helped to become more competitive on international markets by: increasing export capacity; raising awareness of programmes and initiatives to facilitate access to international markets; helping smes to penetrate the goods and services they offer; and ensuring that the interests of small businesses are properly represented.
in writing. − i voted for this document because i believe that the incentives for small businesses set out in the small business act are a pathway to increasing the competitiveness of the european union. i would like to draw particular attention to two aspects of the resolution we adopted. firstly, attention to education and vocational training. it is young people who are the creators and participants of the eu's future. it is therefore essential that they are entrepreneurial and ready to build a vibrant and competitive eu economy. another aspect, also related to the future quality of life in the eu, is the efficient use of resources. in fact, while we talk about it all the time, we're still doing too little to make our words a reality. on the other hand, resource efficiency alone is not enough in general, a sustainable approach to the environment is necessary at any stage of business development. i therefore urge both the european commission and the member states to focus as much as possible on both the development of greater youth entrepreneurship and the promotion of resource efficiency and other environmentally friendly initiatives.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of european society and the engine of our economy. this is also true for lithuania, where 99.4% of lithuanian enterprises have fewer than 250 employees. according to government statistics, in january 2011 there were more than 66 500 smes operating in lithuania. what lithuanians desperately need is smarter regulation and less bureaucracy and administrative burden. one of the biggest problems facing investors in lithuania is obtaining a building permit. according to a world bank report, the process of obtaining a permit requires 17 procedures and can take up to 162 days. in this area, according to the world bank classification, lithuania ranks 59th in the world. an even bigger problem is the protection of investors in lithuania, which is ranked 93rd in this area. it's just not good. i believe that a successful strategy to promote innovative smes should not be based on subsidies alone, but also on the creation of a business environment in which smes have more freedom and better access to different sources of funding. i also believe that smes should pay more attention to social and labour market issues that affect entrepreneurship and the ability of smes to recruit workers with the right skills.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the 'innovation union' model initiative is the most important initiative so far and a concrete attempt by the community to develop a strategic, integrated and business-oriented european innovation policy that would replace member states' efforts and where innovation is managed and its progress monitored at the highest political level. innovation is particularly important in tackling global challenges such as climate change, energy security, food security and many others where innovation and strengthening the current scientific and technological base are needed. it is also necessary to modernise education systems and adapt them to the needs of the times. member states must take action to develop the entrepreneurship and competences of young european citizens and entrepreneurs, by integrating entrepreneurship and innovation into all areas of education and by improving human resources. these actions would enable them to play an active role in innovation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because, under the provision of article 179 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the eu, the union encourages enterprises, including small and medium-sized enterprises, research centres and universities throughout the union to develop high-level research and technological development; it supports their efforts to cooperate on a mutual basis, in particular with a view to enabling researchers from different countries to cooperate freely and enabling enterprises to exploit the full potential of the internal market, in particular by making national public tenders available, defining common standards and removing legal and fiscal obstacles to such cooperation. i firmly believe that the eu must take the fight to the ground and firmly aim for a competitive lead, and it must invest in a wealth of innovation. the european commission is to develop an action plan, based on the current strategy paper 'innovation union', which sets out specific objectives and measurable tasks linked to clear deadlines. the commission should monitor progress on an ongoing basis, assess obstacles and propose a mechanism to improve regular reporting to the european parliament and the council.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the crisis has resulted in the loss of millions of jobs and increased work-related insecurity and poverty, which threatens 17% of the eu population. in some countries, homework is often part of the shadow economy, carried out without any guarantees and/or is not declared. the vast majority of people working in this sector are women, and the work is undervalued, underpaid and unofficial. domestic workers are often discriminated against and subject to unequal, unfair or exploitative treatment. i welcome the ilo's initiative to adopt a convention, accompanied by recommendations on decent work for domestic workers. it is necessary for the member states to ratify and implement this convention and the recommendations as soon as possible, as its implementation would address the needs of one of the most vulnerable categories of workers and contribute to the solution of the problem of illegal work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the crisis has led to the loss of millions of jobs, increased job insecurity and poverty, 17% of the eu population is at risk of poverty and 23 million eu citizens are unemployed. in some countries, homework is often part of the shadow economy, carried out without any guarantees and/or is not declared. the vast majority of people working in this sector are women and this work is undervalued, underpaid and unofficial. the vulnerability of domestic workers means that they are often discriminated against and can easily be subject to unequal, unfair or exploitative treatment. domestic work should be legally recognised as work, more rights should be given to all domestic workers and abuses and abuses should be prevented, in order to provide a legal framework for all domestic workers and to ensure that their work is not carried out outside the regulatory framework. the adoption, ratification and implementation of the ilo convention would not only improve the situation of many women in the domestic labour market by ensuring dignified working conditions for them, but would also promote their social inclusion. it is appropriate to adopt legislation in order to create flexible and secure contractual conditions that guarantee equal opportunities.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. microbial resistance is a major animal health concern in the european livestock sector. given the importance of the livestock sector for the european agricultural economy, it is necessary to address this issue appropriately. i agree that member states should systematically monitor and supervise antimicrobial resistance in food-producing animals on an ongoing basis without imposing additional financial or administrative burdens on farmers, other animal owners or veterinarians. the food and veterinary office and the european food safety authority should carry out further inspections and analyses and provide recommendations in this area. i agree that the commission should negotiate internationally to ban the use of antibacterial substances in animal feed to promote growth and bring this issue into bilateral negotiations with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the ultimate objective is to ensure that antimicrobials remain an effective means of combating animal and human diseases, ensuring that antimicrobials are used strictly on a need-to-know basis. i believe that there is a need to develop good animal husbandry practices as they help to limit the risk of antimicrobial resistance. this practice is particularly necessary for young animals coming from different breeders and therefore increasing the risk of infectious diseases. the commission should seek an international ban on the use of antibacterial substances in animal feed to promote growth and bring this issue into bilateral negotiations with third countries such as the usa. the logical link between animal health and antimicrobial use, and the link between animal health and human health, should be emphasised. today, our priority is to ensure a high level of food security.
in writing. − today, parliament adopted a major decision on antibiotic resistance. in my view, it is essential to collect and analyse data on the use of animal health products, including antibiotics. it is also necessary to ensure that these products are used effectively and in a balanced manner and do not pose a risk to the effectiveness of measures to combat human diseases when antibiotics are chosen for medical treatment. although the 2005-2009 eu monitoring of residues of antibacterial substances in animals and animal foodstuffs shows positive results, we can still say that the controlled downward trends are not are only fragmentary fluctuations. of particular concern is the fact that in 2009 the highest number of antibiotic-related discrepancies were found in honey, rabbits and pond fish, products that are often considered to be valuable food products and are often used in the daily diet of europeans. therefore, the prudent use of antimicrobials and consistent monitoring to better coordinate human and veterinary research resources are essential to ensure human health and animal welfare.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu is a community of values with a cultural diversity, to which the eu's enlargement, the mobility of citizens within the single european area, old and new migration flows and all types of exchanges with the rest of the world contribute. culture plays an important role in bilateral development and trade agreements and is reflected in instruments such as the european development cooperation, stability, democracy and human rights and the instrument for pre-accession, as well as the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the eastern partnership, the union for the mediterranean and the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the resources of which are mainly used to finance various cultural programmes. i agree with the need to strengthen cultural and educational exchanges with third countries, which would strengthen civil society, promote the development of democracy and good governance, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and provide a solid basis for long-term cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because cultural diplomacy is a cornerstone for building trust and long-term relations with third-country nationals. culture should be an essential component, integrated horizontally into the broad external policy areas that make up the eu's foreign policy: both the eu's trade relations and its enlargement and neighbourhood, and its development cooperation and common foreign and security policy. culture also has economic value: europe's cultural industries contribute to european entrepreneurship, innovation and business, and the eu's cultural diversity has made europe the world's top tourist destination. the eu's vibrant cultural climate makes it an attractive place for businesses to operate and for people to live. a coherent, coordinated strategy for the role of culture in the eu's external action does not currently exist and needs to be developed. preserving and enhancing europe's attractiveness in a globally interconnected and competitive environment is not a luxury, it is a necessity. the distribution and dissemination is not only between member states but also between the various eu departments and institutions. this fragmentation, in the absence of a common strategy, hinders the full and effective use of resources and funds for culture, and the eu has therefore more than made up for the lack of such a strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the cultural and creative sectors should be given a prominent place in the new policy agenda of the european union, which should reflect the economic needs of the sector and measures to adapt to innovations in the digital age. i agree that the successful implementation of the digital agenda for europe initiative is essential to increase the potential of this sector, so that the european cultural and creative sectors can fully exploit and successfully adapt to the opportunities offered by broadband, high-speed broadband and new wireless technologies. it is essential to further develop the european digital library and to develop it as a hub for the european cultural heritage and creativity project and to preserve and support its cultural heritage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the development of high quality artistic and cultural education, the territorial dimension, local partnerships, creativity and creativity, the transfer of practical experience, funding, public-private partnerships and the exchange of best practice are crucial to unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative sectors. it is essential that there is competition between the cultural and creative sectors and that the specificities of each of these sectors and their different support needs are taken into account. the european union must apply measures to support the creative sector. it is particularly desirable that this green paper should lead to concrete developments at european level in the short and medium term, for example in relation to the taxation of online cultural goods and services and the availability of financing instruments provided by the eib and the eif. in order to allow the cultural and creative sectors to play their full role as drivers, it is necessary to introduce funding instruments based on a strong expertise in the specificities of the cultural sector, as well as a tailored tax system. member states must make a firm commitment to preserve and promote their cultural heritage. in view of the growing importance of the cultural and creative sectors and in order to strengthen this sector, which is strategically important for achieving the europe 2020 objectives, the commission should draw up a dedicated white paper to unlock the potential of culture and creativity.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european capital of culture is intended to promote the richness and diversity of europe's cultural heritage and its common features, and to foster greater mutual understanding between european citizens. although the european capital of culture 2007-2019 decision applies only to the eu member states, i support the call in the resolution to designate sarajevo as the european capital of culture in 2014 as an exception. i think it would be an important step towards the division of europe, to give the title of european capital of culture to a city where so many tragic events took place in the 20th century.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the community action 'european capital of culture' was adopted in order to highlight the richness and diversity of european cultures and their common features, and to promote greater mutual understanding between european citizens. the commission notes that the sarajevo declaration of 2014 is a key document in the process of european integration, and that the council of the city of sarajevo has already taken a number of important decisions on the future of the city. i therefore consider that the council should exceptionally confer the title of european capital of culture on sarajevo in 2014. it would be an important step towards overcoming the division of europe and demonstrating the new europe, by giving the title of european capital of culture to a city that has witnessed so many tragic events in the 20th century.
mr president, it is appalling that during the protracted military conflict in sri lanka that ended in 2009 nearly 100 000 people were killed, including tens of thousands of civilians, most of whom died in the final phase of the conflict. the international community should demand a robust international investigation into credible reports of atrocities committed on both sides. it is a pity that countries like china and russia opposed discussion of the issue in the united nations security council and the un secretary-general taking more robust action to investigate the crimes committed. the un panel of experts clearly indicated that both the government of sri lanka and the tamil rebels committed serious violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law, possibly amounting in some cases to war crimes and crimes against humanity. so i fully support the immediate establishment of an international justice mechanism as proposed by the un report.
mr president, the resolution on azerbaijan expresses our concern about eventual north african echoes in this, a european partnership country. the leadership there should avoid, in its approaches to the opposition and peaceful protestors, any similarity with the regimes in north africa, russia or belarus. that suggestion and warning can be read in the document before us, certain points of which could express that criticism with more clarity. the wording on the worsening human rights situation and the increased number of incidents, should be preceded by the word ‘recently’, as this is not about general developments over the years, going from bad to worse. on the contrary, until the spring events, azerbaijan was making relatively good progress and was not listed by human rights watch among such poorly-viewed states as china, iraq, israel, russia, saudi arabia or uzbekistan. as it was not mentioned, azerbaijan looked better, but now we need a little more balance.
today's azerbaijan has two faces. on the one hand, azerbaijan is demonstrating impressive economic growth, as evidenced by large oil reserves, progress in negotiations with the european union on an association agreement, and participation in the euronest assembly. the other face is the arrests, the press restrictions, a situation which is very dangerously similar to the situation in belarus, which my colleagues have been talking about. i think that the official baku must make a decision and listen to the public opinion, because sitting on two chairs is not going to work, and the european union, with its many instruments, should help to make a decision in a positive direction.
the author. − in the five months since 19 december, the political atmosphere in belarus has deteriorated dramatically. it strengthens repression against democratic opposition, free press, civil society. belarus is also in breach of international treaties. i have always been in favour of dialogue with minsk, but in the current circumstances it is becoming very difficult, if not impossible. moreover, unforgettable accusations, even insults, are also being made against the european union from minsk. the resolution calls for new ways to help belarusian civil society, the opposition, and rightly so. maybe it's an illusion, but i think both moscow and kiev could help negotiate with minsk the release of political prisoners.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is not a single indication that the belarusian regime will change by itself in the coming months or years. it is only under very strong european union pressure, that we can expect anything to happen. belarus keeps on violating all fundamental rights and civil liberties. over the past month, we have seen the belarusian authorities repeatedly demonstrating their disdain and contempt for the fundamental rights of freedom of assembly and expression. we could talk here about the matrix of the unchangability of lukashenko and his regime, but we cannot end on that pessimistic note. we should understand that a proper response would be a signal to belarusians – to the belarusian nation – that they are welcome in europe, with, at the same time, pressure on the regime and some very principled words about their violation of human rights. we must not be misled by lukashenko’s occasional making up to the european union just to infuriate russia temporarily, or vice versa. this is unacceptable. what is happening in belarus has to be evaluated in a very principled way, and more pressure has to be applied.
for the alde group the 1941 mass deportations of the baltic population was one of the most dramatic and tragic events of the 20th century. the blow to lithuania, latvia and estonia, to their political communities and to their very civilized life, isolated these peoples and countries for five decades. it also dealt a major blow to european solidarity and european togetherness. this isolation ended only in 1991, when it was possible to speak of a break in the history of the baltic peoples. but it was not until 2004 that the accession of the baltic states to the european union really marked and ended the division of europe. the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians, mostly the most educated, the most advanced people, is an integral part of the social engineering of the stalin era and the struggle against individuals and nations, their memory and dignity. and yet, we can end up optimistically, because today, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can commemorate seven decades of the slaughter of innocent people in the baltic states, and the fact that we recognise this is restoring europe's dignity, solidarity and our consolidated political memory.
the president of the council. - mr president, i have to go. officer, reporting officer! ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! at the beginning of the hungarian presidency, we made a promise to work for a strong europe, one that puts people at its centre. i am very pleased that we are now on the verge of adopting a directive that will clearly improve the quality of life of european citizens. i therefore warmly welcome the fact that we have managed to reach an agreement with the european parliament on the euromatrix directive. the proposal on heavy goods vehicle charges for the use of certain infrastructures aims to set transport prices in a fair way so that they more accurately reflect the real costs of air and noise pollution, congestion and climate change impacts from heavy goods vehicle use. in fact, commercial road transport is one of the most important economic sectors in modern societies. it is also a fact that road transport problems, such as air and noise pollution and traffic congestion, are becoming more serious. they therefore have an increasing role to play in innovative, professional policy measures such as encouraging the use of environmentally friendly vehicles or developing route planners. measures to internalise external costs are expected to increase economic efficiency and reduce negative environmental impacts. the fair toll system proposed in the euromatrica directive will help us to make more sustainable use of our scarce resources. this measure is also of great importance in the context of the commission's recent white paper entitled 'roadmap to a single european transport area, towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system'. the measure is the first step towards the internalisation of the external costs of all modes of transport. the council considers this proposal to be one of the most significant measures in the field of transport. we know that parliament agrees with us on this. together, we worked hard to reach a compromise. the hungarian presidency would therefore like to express its special thanks to the rapporteur, mr saïd el khadraoui, for his willingness to cooperate constructively with the council and his commitment to success. the last unfinished business of the negotiations was the compliance tables. the presidency welcomed the solution to the matter and i would like to read the relevant statement from the hungarian presidency, which is also supported by the successive polish, danish and cypriot presidencies. in order to avoid any misinterpretation or misunderstanding, let me read it out in english: it is hereby declared that the agreement reached between the council and the european parliament in the trialogue of 23 may 2011 concerning the directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, eurovignette, does not prejudge the outcome of interinstitutional negotiations on correlation tables. other mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! this is a very important case. one that will clearly affect the daily lives of our citizens. we therefore welcome the agreement reached between these two institutions. i think that in the field of transport policy this is one of the most important achievements of our hungarian presidency and we are confident about the vote tomorrow and we hope that the majority of members will support this directive. once again, thanks to all those who helped bring about this compromise, beyond the reporter, to the shadow reporters, to our legal experts, even the very difficult matter of the compliance boards was resolved in this case.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, after three years’ negotiations, we are now close to the adoption of the amended directive on charging heavy goods vehicles, the so-called eurovignette directive. this is part of a wider strategy to internalise the external costs of transport in all modes to get transport prices right. i would like to thank the belgian presidency for unblocking this file in the council. the hungarian presidency skilfully negotiated with a very narrow majority in the council. let me thank in particular the rapporteur, mr el khadraoui. together with the shadow rapporteurs and members of the committee on transport and tourism, he managed to significantly improve the text at second reading. i look forward to parliament adopting this directive for two main reasons. firstly, to achieve our goals of a more sustainable green transport system and thus implement the polluter-pays principle. the directive will authorise member states to charge tolls on lorries not only for infrastructure costs, as is the case now, but also for noise and air pollution. it will also allow more efficient varying of tolls to ease congestion during peak hours. secondly, at a time of scarce public funding, the charging for external costs provided by the new directive will generate revenues and make new financial resources available for transport infrastructure. the commission supports this agreement. i have noted your declaration on the correlation table. i fully sympathise with you on this issue. on behalf of the commission i will also make a formal statement: ‘the commission recalls its commitment towards ensuring that member states establish correlation tables linking the transposition measures they adopt to the eu directive and that they communicate them to the commission in the framework of transposing eu legislation in the interests of citizens, better law-making and increasing legal transparency, and to assist in the examination of the conformity of national rules with eu provisions. ‘ the commission regrets the lack of support for the provision included in the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 1999/62/ec on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, which aimed at rendering the establishment of correlation tables obligatory. ‘ the commission, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of that proposal, can accept the substitution of the obligatory provision on correlation tables included in the text with the relevant recital encouraging member states to follow this practice. it will inform parliament within 12 months of the adoption of this agreement in plenary and produce a report at the end of the transposition period on practice in the member states, in order to draw up for themselves – and in the interests of the union – their own tables illustrating as far as possible the correlation between this directive and the transposition measures and to make them public. however, the position followed by the commission in this file shall not be considered as a precedent. the commission will continue its efforts with a view to finding, together with parliament and the council, an appropriate solution to this horizontal institutional issue.’
for the efd group first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great and very important work he has done. as is well known, the transport sector plays a crucial role in ensuring mobility and social and economic development in europe, and improving transport infrastructure is essential to address the challenges of economic growth and sustainability. we are all concerned about the effects of climate change, environmental protection, various health and social welfare issues, which are inextricably linked to the rational use of transport. i agree that the application of the polluter pays principle and the protection of the public interest encourage and should encourage measures aimed in particular at reducing environmental pollution, noise, damage to the landscape, the social costs of health damage, all of which generate high economic costs for the whole community and therefore for all european citizens. it is good that we are finally applying the polluter pays principle to road transport. i am sure that this will provide additional opportunities for member states to make their national road toll systems more efficient, i.e. to develop a more effective tool for managing transport needs. however, i believe that the measures under discussion today and which will be adopted in the near future are not entirely adequate and economically beneficial only for the central transit member states of the european union, and are not entirely or much less favourable to a considerable number of european states situated along the external borders of the european union. in general, i think that the aspect i have just mentioned should be fully reassessed, re-evaluated and then accepted.
in writing. − the committee responsible recommends the waiver of parliamentary immunity (unanimously) as the buda central district court (budapest) asks the european parliament to waive the immunity of mep ágnes hankiss in a criminal case which was referred for a new hearing by the supreme court of the republic of hungary on 12 november 2009. the private defendant accuses ágnes hankiss of public insult (article 179 of the hungarian criminal code) and in particular of insulting the memory of the deceased person, the defendant's father (article 181 of the hungarian criminal code), because of a statement made on the programme 'péntek 8 mondatvadász' on 23 january 2004. on 12 november 2009, the supreme court ruled that the substantive criminal law had indeed been violated and referred the case to the central district court of buda for a new trial. the latter must re-examine the case in the light of the arguments contained in the decision of the supreme court. the central district court of buda reopened the case on 31 march 2010. on the same day, the proceedings were suspended because ágnes hankiss, as a member of the european parliament, enjoys parliamentary immunity. the request for waiver of immunity was made by the court on 6 july 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document repealing council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 on proof of origin and conditions of recognition of proof of origin for certain textile products falling within chapter xi of the combined nomenclature and released for free circulation in the community and amending council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. following the lifting of restrictions on imports originating in the member states by the world trade organisation in 2005, the european union should also simplify existing legislation in order to create a more business-friendly and transparent environment, in particular by simplifying customs formalities to be completed by importers of certain textile products whose products are released for free circulation in the community. i believe that these amendments will ensure uniformity of the rules applicable to imports and will bring the rules applicable to textile imports into line with those applicable to other industrial products, which should enhance the overall consistency of the legislation in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because its main objective is to repeal the eu regulation currently in force, which imposes additional requirements for proving the origin of textile products imported into the eu, thus simplifying the existing legislation and creating a more business-friendly and transparent environment. indeed, until the world trade organisation (wto) lifted restrictions on imports of textile products from china in 2008, the eu needed a legal instrument to regulate trade with third countries and thus protect the eu internal market and its producers. however, such a complex administrative procedure is no longer proportionate, as another eu regulation imposes an obligation to indicate the country of origin of the product on customs documents before it is released for free circulation on the eu market, and the eu is currently strengthening consumer protection by increasing the amount of information provided to consumers.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the commission's proposal to repeal council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 and to amend council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 was drawn up in the light of the eu's political commitment to simplify existing legislation in order to create a more business-friendly and transparent environment, in particular by simplifying customs formalities for certain importers of textile products whose products are released for free circulation in the community and classified in chapter xi of the combined nomenclature. the commission also seeks to strengthen the uniformity of the rules applicable to imports by aligning the rules applicable to textile imports with those applicable to other industrial products, which should enhance the overall consistency of the legislation in this area. the commission considers that the union's very limited trade policy measures in the textile sector can be managed without imposing an unnecessary burden of requiring proof of origin for all imported goods. it also helps to avoid the market distortion that could be caused by large-scale imports of such textile products into the eu if the quotas allowed are not respected.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction plays an important role in collecting data on drugs and drug addiction and in producing objective, reliable and comparable information at eu level. this provides a basis for analysing drug demand and its reduction and the drug market. the republic of croatia expressed its wish to participate in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in 2005. the republic of croatia is a transit country through which drugs are smuggled from producer countries to consumer countries. large-scale cocaine seizures in croatia, mostly related to maritime transport, are also notable. i supported this agreement and the participation of the republic of croatia in the european monitoring centre on drugs and drug addiction, which will also allow the collection of factual and objective information from croatia on drugs and drug addiction and their consequences at european level, while at the same time providing the republic of croatia with information on best practices in order to better understand the nature of the drug problem and to be able to better address it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that croatia's participation in the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is essential to combating illicit drug use and trafficking more effectively, not only in croatia but also across the eu. as a coastal state on the eu's external borders, croatia is used as a transit country for international drug trafficking and it is therefore essential that the eu provides all necessary assistance to the national authorities in the country in combating this phenomenon, which is extremely dangerous to health and social stability. the agreement to be concluded will include croatia's participation in the centre's work programme, the fulfilment of the relevant obligations under eu law and the sharing of data with the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, in compliance with union data protection requirements.
in writing. − i supported this report because, as we know, the main task of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is to collect data on drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and publish objective, reliable and comparable information at european level. the information should form the basis for analysing drug demand and the means of reducing it and, in general, for analysing drug market phenomena. it is provided that third countries which share a common interest with the union and its member states in pursuing the objectives of the centre and in carrying out its work may participate in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. in 2005, the republic of croatia expressed its willingness to participate in the centre's activities. the republic of croatia will participate in the centre's work programme, fulfil the obligations set out in the regulation, be included in the european drug and drug addiction information network (reitox) and share data with the emcdda, in compliance with union data protection requirements and national legislation. the republic of croatia will also pay financial contributions to the union to cover the costs of its participation in the centre's management board without the right to vote until it becomes a member state. in turn, the emcdda will apply the same conditions for inclusion in the european information network on drugs and drug addiction (reitox) and staffing to the republic of croatia as to the current member states.
in writing. − i believe that we need to take action, not only within the european union but also beyond it, to reduce drug use and demand through strong preventive measures to combat drug market phenomena. in this context, it is vital to have accurate data and information on drugs and drug addiction, as these are global phenomena that threaten the health, safety and social well-being of all of us. i support the participation of croatia in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. croatia is seeking to become a full member of the european union. it should be noted that croatia is a transit country for large quantities of drugs to other countries. it is encouraging that croatia is making a major effort to combat the illicit transport, use and trafficking of drugs. however, croatia remains one of the main routes for illicit drugs into the eu. in this context, it is essential to obtain factual and objective information on drugs and drug addiction and their consequences in an operational manner. in addition, croatia will benefit from access to best practices in other eu countries in dealing with drug and drug addiction problems.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate to extend the scope of the regulation on the crossborder transport of euro cash by road from one euro area member state to another and to apply its provisions to the territory of member states preparing to adopt the euro. it should be noted that there is a high demand for euro cash services in countries preparing to change their currency. this requires improving the quality of transport services by providing the best conditions for carriers to provide services in an appropriate, timely and efficient manner. in addition, given the nature and value of the cargo being transported, it is essential that the cash reaches the final recipient safely.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. on 14 june 2010, the commission published its 'action plan for the implementation of the global navigation satellite system (gnss) ' and made 24 specific recommendations for action. the action plan has been prepared in the context of the wider general use of global navigation satellite systems and in particular the development and use of egnos (european geostationary navigation network system). the eu has embarked on the egnos project (and the galileo project) to provide signals for civilian use and to ensure that european industry is fully competitive in this expanding strategic market. the current european market share of 25% is insufficient. egnos will provide more opportunities (egnos is ten times more accurate than gps) when the galileo system becomes operational in 2013. the commission is the most appropriate body to coordinate the implementation of the action plan in order to avoid duplication of action at member state level and to ensure common progress in the various eu policy areas related to the gnss programmes. in view of the significant economic benefits that egnos will bring to the entire european economy, if established and fully exploited, the commission should set clear priorities in this area, including the operation of egnos throughout the eu territory and ensuring appropriate investment in further research and technological development in this area.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because on 14 june 2010 the commission published its 'action plan for the implementation of the global navigation satellite system (gnss) ' with 24 specific recommendations for action. the action plan has been prepared in the context of the wider general use of global navigation satellite systems and in particular the development and use of egnos (european geostationary navigation network system). egnos is the predecessor of the galileo system. gnss is important for the development of intelligent transport systems (its) because intelligent transport systems can lead to more efficient, cleaner and safer transport solutions and many its services require a well-functioning gnss to be properly implemented. egnos and galileo can be of great help in managing road traffic and an information campaign in this sector is therefore necessary to make better use of its possibilities in terms of charging, e-signalling, reserving safe parking places for trucks after connecting to the network and real-time monitoring, and to increase road transport safety and environmental friendliness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on eu policy measures in the short and medium term for the application of the global navigation satellite system to transport programmes, in particular because of the need to give a strong pan-european focus to gnss and galileo projects in the transport sector. the commission has a special role to play in this area, and it must develop a regulatory mechanism to remove the various bureaucratic and other obstacles and to facilitate the smooth and efficient implementation of these projects. it is also essential to ensure that these projects are adequately and sufficiently financed on the basis of transparency and proportionality criteria, with particular attention to smes. the use of the gnss and galileo programmes in civil aviation should be encouraged and thus contribute to the establishment and facilitation of a common european research programme on air traffic management. it is essential that european satellite navigation programmes are adapted to different types of transport services and applied throughout europe, rather than in certain countries, as the effective implementation of those programmes would increase the efficiency of freight transport and help to solve many transport safety and environmental problems.
in writing. −after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, agreements falling within the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure require parliament's consent. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish general principles for the assessment of air service agreements, taking into account both their content and the procedures that the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism may adopt in order to ensure that it is properly informed during the negotiation of agreements and has the opportunity to present its priorities well before a request is made to it and it has to decide whether to give its consent or not. comprehensive air services agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners could be of great benefit to passengers, cargo operators and airlines as a means of accessing markets and harmonising legislation in order to promote fair competition, including on issues related to state subsidies, social and environmental standards. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should monitor the process from the outset and participate actively in the discussion of the issues under discussion and in order to know the current state of play of the negotiations on air transport agreements. the commission should also know the criteria which parliament will apply in assessing the agreement and its elements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that comprehensive eu air transport agreements with third countries would only benefit passengers, freight operators and airlines in many aspects: safety, maintaining environmental standards and promoting a favourable business environment. the purpose of this communication is to simplify and clarify the conclusion of air services agreements and decisions on such agreements by informing the european parliament in advance of the criteria on which it will base its approval or disapproval of the conclusion of an agreement on behalf of the eu. in the report, parliament also draws the attention of the commission and the council to agreements which could be concluded in the interests of the eu and its citizens but which, for one reason or another, have not yet been concluded by the eu with countries such as russia, china, japan and india.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has extended the conditions under which parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. at present, aviation agreements fall into this category as they fall within the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure. in the light of this change, the committee on transport and tourism decided to draw up a report on its own initiative, which aims to establish some general principles concerning the way in which air service agreements should be assessed in terms of their content and the procedures that the committee can adopt in order to ensure that it is properly informed during the negotiations and has the opportunity to present its priorities well before it is asked for its consent or not.
in writing. − comprehensive air transport agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners are beneficial not only for freight operators and airlines, but also for passengers. in particular, such agreements will ensure equal rights for all union airlines. in addition, high standards of safety and security will be applied, which are vital for passengers, crew and the aviation sector in general. in view of the benefits of these agreements, i consider it appropriate to establish general principles for the assessment of air service agreements. it is important that each agreement mitigates or removes market access and investment restrictions, maintains and enhances social and environmental standards, ensures adequate data and privacy protection, establishes mutual recognition of safety standards and maintains a high level of passenger rights. the commission should take immediate action to resolve the issue of flights over the territory of siberia and to start negotiations on international air services agreements with japan and russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this common position of the council and parliament on the 'eurovignette' directive, which was tabled at second reading. the main objectives of the directive are to enable member states to impose charges on road users for certain external costs, i.e. to apply the 'polluter pays' principle, and to provide member states with additional possibilities to make their national road charging systems more efficient. i support the reduction of environmental pollution and the implementation of the polluter pays principle in road transport. i also supported the proposal that the revenue from the 'eurovignette' tax be used for investments in road infrastructure and for the improvement of transport sustainability. the promotion of sustainable transport is an essential element of the common transport policy. to this end, the impact of transport on climate change and its negative impacts, in particular congestion, which impedes mobility, and air and noise pollution, which damages health and the environment, should be reduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because its purpose is to tax heavy goods vehicles according to the time of day they drive, whether at peak times or not, and according to the noise they make and the volume of their engines. at least 15% of the money collected from the taxes is invested in other projects related to co2 reduction. it is good that we are committed today to reducing climate change, that we are finally applying the polluter pays principle to road transport. i am sure that this will provide additional opportunities for member states to make their national road toll systems more efficient, i.e. to develop a more effective tool for managing transport needs. however, i believe that these measures are economically beneficial and favourable only to a few central, transit member states of the european union, and not at all favourable or much less favourable to a considerable number of member states of the european union situated along the external borders of the european union, both to the east and to the south, both to the west and to the north. so i think we should take this aspect into account, weigh it again and then take it back.
in writing. - i do not support the proposal to tax heavy goods vehicles on the basis of noise and pollution. i do not think it is appropriate to create another additional tax burden for carriers which have been hit very hard by the financial crisis. the charge will take into account not only the cost of road infrastructure, the pollution category of the car and the driving time, but also the level of pollution, noise and congestion. in addition, the toll will not only be charged on motorways belonging to the trans-european networks, but also on other motorways and important roads. it is worth noting that such regulation will have a negative impact on the revenues of european road hauliers, will increase the delivery times of goods. for the above reasons, transport costs and freight transportation costs will increase. in addition, the toll imposed may significantly reduce the demand for road transport.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, any new eu rules on heavy goods vehicle taxation must strike a balance between the environmental needs and economic interests of the new member states. lithuania is a valuable transit country for europe. our freight transport and hardworking truck drivers have become the calling card of our country. according to the lithuanian road administration, the number of heavy vehicles on main roads has tripled in the last ten years they help to form the backbone of our economy. for lithuania, which is already very exhausted by the financial crisis, an increase in road transport prices would be one of the hardest blows to bear. i agree with the rapporteur that member states should be given the opportunity to make their national road charging systems more efficient. i am aware of the pollution issues mentioned in this report and i take them very seriously, but additional taxes on air pollution and noise will not be the answer. the problem is much bigger than what's in this report. in most eu member states, road infrastructure needs further development. at the same time, funding for road maintenance and development in lithuania has decreased by more than 20% over the last few years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european environmental policy can only be properly assessed if reliable data are available. the most important eu-wide policy initiatives on environmental bills to date are the sixth environment action programme, the eu sustainable development strategy and a number of sectoral policy initiatives related to the cardiff process, covering areas such as climate change, sustainable transport, nature and biodiversity, health and the environment, the use of natural resources, waste management and the international dimension of sustainable development. in its conclusions of june 2006, the european council called on the european union and the member states to integrate the main aspects of sustainable development into national accounts. the system of national accounts should therefore be complemented by integrated environmental and economic accounting with data that are fully consistent. to achieve this, it is necessary that each member state collects uniform and comprehensive data and that the system is fully harmonised at eu level.
in writing. − environmental economic accounts should help to assess policies, in particular when they provide data on the environmental impact of economic activities. the relevant information can be an important basis for environmental policy decisions. in its conclusions of june 2006, the european council called on the eu and the member states to integrate the main aspects of sustainable development into national accounts. the commission's proposal for a european environmental economic accounts also makes an important contribution to the development of this policy concept. the european environmental policy can only be properly assessed if reliable data are available. member states should therefore undertake to collect those data. in order to improve policy evaluation capabilities, the environmental data available at european level should be expanded to include additional information fairly quickly. good quality environmental and economic data would allow better monitoring of waste recycling and prevention, emissions and climate change, and sustainable consumption and production. i abstained in voting in favour of this document because i do not believe that this data can be collected through the environmental accounting system alone, it is necessary that each country does so and that the system is fully harmonised at eu level.
in writing. − the european environmental policy can only be properly and appropriately assessed if reliable data are available. recycling, emissions, climate change, sustainable consumption and production need to be monitored continuously to ensure progress in these areas at european level. the environmental economic accounts system is one of the tools to collect and compile data on expenditure, taxes by type of economic activity and on the country's material flow accounts. however, the mandatory nature of this system creates an additional administrative burden and the introduction of such a system requires a proper assessment of the impact of its application, the setting of objectives and clear guidelines for the further development of environmental economic accounts. it should be noted that the main control and responsibility functions in these areas will be entrusted to eurostat. it is necessary to provide for sufficient human and financial resources to carry out those functions. however, it is necessary to take into account whether the budget of the european union is sufficient to allocate additional financial resources to the expansion and maintenance of the bureaucratic apparatus.
in writing. freedom of movement is one of the eu's most important values for all citizens of the european union, and the schengen area is unique in that it abolishes common border controls between its member states and implements the free movement of persons. we must therefore respect the right to free movement of all citizens of the european union without exception. if bulgaria and romania are subject to additional criteria than other eu member states due to their accession to the schengen area, this will create a double standard. we must avoid a system based on 'double standards' that is too strict for candidate countries and too soft for countries that already belong to the schengen area. the schengen rules must be the same for all countries and the evaluation system must be based on the provision that the rules must be respected at all times, not just at the time of accession. the countries acceding to the schengen area must continue to comply with all security requirements, since the security of that area depends on the strict and effective control of the external borders by the member states and on the rapid and high-quality exchange of information through the schengen information system. it is therefore necessary for member states to cooperate to the greatest extent possible and to take the necessary measures to abolish internal border controls, in particular in the context of increasing migratory flows, since the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and effectiveness of the controls carried out by each member state at its external borders.
member of the commission. − (microphone switched off until middle of first sentence) ... much of the institutional arrangements including the wage setting arrangements in various member states. these emergency situations have been handled through policies that were jointly developed by the eu, the imf, the ecb and the governments of the member states concerned. indeed there are still some open questions, and also some raised by the so-called euro-plus pact. we recently held a number of discussions about the connection between social dialogue and economic governance with the social partners, including the etuc. this is an ongoing discussion. i am not saying that all the questions have been answered and that is exactly why i took the initiative of organising a conference on wages and wage setting in the eu. this conference will take place with the involvement of the social partners and other stakeholders in september. we will continue this discussion and hopefully find the right answers.
member of the commission. − the free movement of workers is a fundamental principle of the eu. together with the free movement of goods, services, and capital, it is a pillar of the single market and has contributed to european integration over the last 50 years. it also has a significant social dimension, insofar as it fosters the social, economic and cultural integration of eu migrant workers and members of their families into the host member state. the body of eu law on free movement of workers gives eu citizens the right to move freely within the union for work purposes and protects the social rights of workers and their family members. as you know, 1 may 2011 was an important date for the eu. it marked the end of restrictions on the right to work of citizens from the eight member states which joined in 2004, who can now work freely in any member state. the commission hopes that the member states which still apply transitional measures to workers from romania and bulgaria will liberalise their labour markets when the second phase expires on 31 december 2011. the end of transitional arrangements means that more eu citizens can take advantage of one of the eu’s fundamental freedoms and work freely in another member state. that opens great opportunities for the individual, who can move where there are jobs, and also for the economy. i know that mobility and freedom of movement for workers are also important to this house. the commission is pleased with the own-initiative report on promoting worker mobility within the european union and is following the debate in the parliamentary committees with great interest. but we are also aware that, despite the large body of eu legislation in the area of freedom of movement for workers, most eu citizens still feel there are too many obstacles to working in another member state. the situation has been highlighted on several occasions recently. the monti report of 9 may 2010 – ‘a new strategy for the single market’ – points out that, while freedom of movement for workers is a success overall from a legal viewpoint, it is the least-used of our four single market freedoms. tackling these problems calls for a broad approach, combined with effective implementation of the principle of free movement. the enforceability of the right of free movement conferred by eu law is particularly relevant in cases of discrimination on the basis of nationality, as the individuals concerned need to have suitable mechanisms to ensure such rights are properly protected. the commission services are currently evaluating eu legislation on the free movement of workers, and in particular regulation (eec) no 1612/68, and are exploring the options for improving the enforcement of eu law on freedom of movement, including, where necessary, by presenting an initiative in 2012. parliament’s report on worker mobility therefore comes at the right time, and will certainly contribute to the debate on enforcement of eu law on free movement of workers and the choice of any further action on this issue.
thank you very much, commissioner, for your answer. we will indeed be waiting for the commission's revised regulation next year, but i would like to hear your opinion whether the commission should not assess not only the positive effects of free movement of workers but also the negative effects of free movement of workers. for example, some countries in the european union have left a large number of highly qualified, well-trained workers, in which the member states have invested heavily. they went to other countries of the european union. do you not think that a fund should be set up to compensate in solidarity for the losses suffered by those member states which have left to train skilled workers?
first of all, i want to thank all the reporters for the great work they have done. today we have a clear parliament position on what we and our citizens expect from the next financial programming period. we all understand that we will have to make a fundamental change in the direction of current policies, and this is clearly reflected in the europe 2020 strategy. we must create a secure and single european energy market, ensure the interconnection of all europe by means of transport networks, and eliminate the differences that still exist between the different regions of the european union. we need to fundamentally revise the common agricultural policy, which must ensure a fair and equal system of direct payments, and many other important areas without which we will not have a competitive and strong europe. of course, this will require a high level of investment, especially in research, and it is therefore necessary to look for new funding instruments, such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax and the like. i believe that .... (the president interrupted)
i am pleased to be here today to talk about the mid-term review of the seventh framework programme. many of the highlights listed in the document are very true, especially in view of the more active participation of young researchers and industry in the projects of the framework programme. the document expresses concern at the rather low participation of some member states. i would point out that there are objective reasons for this. the funding schemes in force today are in some ways more favourable to the old european union. the figures illustrate this. for newly acceded countries, the amount of funding per project participant from that country is twice as low as for former eu countries. this situation is creating a gap in the community and a segregation of new members, which i am convinced should not be the case. i therefore believe that it is necessary to review funding schemes and to ensure that no unequal or discriminatory conditions are left in place during the eighth programme in order to effectively address the challenges identified in the europe 2020 strategy.
i am very pleased with the document adopted today on impact assessment and its independence. impact assessment is the backbone of the legislative process. i believe that effective impact assessment independence must become a general principle applicable to all types of impact assessment, and this is particularly true of environmental impact assessment. the implementation of this principle should also be ensured in the environmental impact assessment directive, which is likely to be revised in the near future. i am glad that the proposals in the environment committee, the amendments to which i have tabled, reflect precisely the independent assessment of environmental impact, which is really extremely important. the european commission must also play a more active role in defending the interests of the european union and its member states in cases where projects by third countries may affect the european union, one or more of its members. i believe this document is a step forward in the direction of our common security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the application of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania. i agree with the rapporteur that, although there are some outstanding issues that will need to be regularly reported and that will need to be followed up at some point in the future, they do not constitute an obstacle to these two member states becoming full schengen members. the integration of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area is of great importance both for these countries, for their economic growth and investment, and for the european union as a whole, in the interests of greater integration and solidarity between member states.
in writing. − cooperation on schengen matters was launched with the conclusion of the schengen agreement on 14 june 1985, which abolished the systematic internal border controls of the signatory countries and created the conditions for the creation of a common area in which the free movement of persons is ensured. the free movement is currently ensured in an area with 42 673 km of external sea and 7 721 km of external land border, covering 25 countries and 400 million citizens. bulgaria, romania and cyprus currently only partially apply the schengen acquis and therefore checks are still carried out at the border with these three member states. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis in 2007 when they joined the eu. the european parliament and the council , having regard to the results of the evaluations and the re-visits of the expert groups, have concluded that, although there are some outstanding issues which will need to be regularly reported and on which further action will be required, they do not constitute an obstacle to these two member states becoming full schengen members. i supported the proposal that bulgaria and romania inform the european parliament and the council in writing within a period of six months of the further action it intends to take on the recommendations contained in the evaluation reports and those referred to in subsequent reports which have yet to be implemented.
in writing. − romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis in 2007 upon accession to the eu. the verification, by means of evaluation procedures, of the fulfilment by the new member states of the necessary conditions for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis (data protection, the schengen information system, the airspace border, the land border, the sea border, police cooperation and visas) is a precondition for the council to be able to adopt a decision on the abolition of internal border controls with these member states, in accordance with the act of accession. i did not approve this document as, in the light of the results of the evaluations and the re-visits of the expert groups, the committee responsible concluded that there are outstanding issues that will need to be reported on regularly and that further action will be needed in the future. it should be noted that the area comprising bulgaria, turkey and greece is the most sensitive point of the eu's external borders in terms of illegal migration. it is therefore necessary for bulgaria to take additional measures, in particular a specific plan setting out the actions to be implemented upon accession to the schengen area and a common approach (greece, turkey and bulgaria) to ensure the ability to respond to potential increased migration flows. i consider that the member states concerned should be required to inform the european parliament and the council in writing of the implementation of the additional measures and of any deficiencies within a period of six months from the date of entry into force of this decision.
in writing. − the abolition of internal border controls is of particular importance for the european union as a whole and for each member state individually. in order to ensure the effective functioning of the schengen area and the achievement of its objectives, it is necessary to ensure that the abolition of border controls does not have negative consequences, in particular in relation to illegal migration. each country must fulfil all the conditions of the schengen acquis without exception in relation to data protection, the information system, air, land and sea borders, police cooperation and visas in order to join the schengen area. it is also essential to ensure that each member state carries out strict and effective external border controls. i think that when romania and bulgaria will be able to become full members in the near future, they will be able to apply all the provisions of the schengen acquis properly. bulgaria should now be given special attention, as it is situated along the eu's external borders with turkey and greece. it is the most sensitive and vulnerable area in the union. in this context, it is essential that bulgaria and romania, upon becoming full members of the schengen area, are adequately prepared to manage the increased migratory flows, to be able to implement adequately and effectively the measures to combat illegal migration and to ensure the effective functioning of the external border control mechanism.
in writing. - i voted for romania and bulgaria to be admitted to the schengen area. after a thorough examination, the eu's responsible commission has recognised that these countries fulfil all the criteria for membership of the schengen area: they ensure the protection of national borders by land, sea and air sufficiently well, have an effective mastery of the schengen information system for the exchange of data and ensure data protection in a reliable manner. my group considers the introduction of new membership criteria to be wrong at this stage, as it would imply a double standard for these countries. the problems still facing romania and bulgaria - organised crime and corruption - are clearly a serious handicap for the governments of these countries, which should be able to combat these phenomena more effectively. however, i am of the opinion that the closure of the schengen gate for romania and bulgaria should not be a punishment for honest citizens, who would suffer the most if they were to lose the opportunity to travel freely in europe now.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution not only because of the importance of the upcoming 66th session of the un general assembly but also because it is vitally important that the eu finally steps up cooperation and coordination in this and all other un bodies. article 34 of the treaty on european union clearly stipulates that member states shall coordinate their action in international organisations and that member states, which are also members of the un security council, will concert and in the execution of their functions, defend the positions and the interests of the union. so far, cooperation was not exemplary in the un general assembly. neither was it in the un security council. we all know well that member states that belong to the un security council (france, the united kingdom and germany) failed to act in concert and come up with a single position vis-à-vis military intervention in libya, in particular with regard to the vote on the un security council resolution 1973. i would therefore urge eu member states to strive for a common position on issues vital to international peace and security, especially in areas where there is already a broad international consensus.
in writing. − the international order is undergoing a fundamental change and the european union needs to engage more actively with the world's current and emerging powers, as well as with bilateral and multilateral partners, to promote effective decision-making on issues of concern to eu citizens and the world. under article 21 of the treaty on european union, the eu is formally committed to an effective multilateral partnership, with a strong united nations at its core, as it is essential to tackle global challenges such as climate change and environmental degradation, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, poverty reduction and development for all, the consequences of demographic change and migration, and transnational organised crime. i agree that the eu should play an active role in creating a united nations that can effectively contribute to global solutions, peace, security, democracy and the rule of law in an international order.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it seeks to facilitate effective multilateral partnerships as a key strategic priority for the union and to increase the coherence and visibility of the eu as a global actor at the un, including through better coordination of eu internal consultations on un issues and the promotion of increased influence. cooperate also with the eu's strategic partners in the un system; and give the strategic partnerships a multilateral dimension, i.e. including global issues on the agenda of eu bilateral and multilateral summits, helping to increase the un's effectiveness and transparency and improving the management of un financial resources. in addition, it touches on the crucial aspects of strengthening the role of the international criminal court and the international criminal justice system, promoting accountability and ending impunity, strengthening crisis prevention units and increasing their effectiveness in the implementation of the united nations development programme, in order to make the united nations a global leader in crisis prevention and recovery, the eu and the un need to cooperate closely in the field of civil and military crisis management, in particular in humanitarian aid operations, the fundamental transformation of the international atomic energy agency (iaea) by eliminating its dual functions of monitoring and promoting the use of nuclear energy, and the limitation of the iaea's responsibilities for controlling the nuclear industry and monitoring compliance with the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, as well as other important aspects that i support and support in principle.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal because it gives an extensive review of the current global issues in the eu and un, pointing out the challenges and the opportunities that the eu is facing. it has also addressed solid and far-reaching suggestions for the eu in various areas on the international level, such as engaging with the eu’s strategic partners within the un system, ensuring the important role of the eeas, enhancing peace, security and justice, and combating climate change. i believe that these are the issues that are critical on the global stage right now, and the eu has to involve itself and play a vital role in all these aspects. therefore i support this proposal and recommend to the council that it should give careful consideration to this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the mid-term review of the european union's seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament sends a clear signal to the european commission on the future implementation of the research programme. one of the most important proposals, which i also support, is the simplification of the administrative requirements for projects implemented under this programme. indeed, one of the difficulties identified is the complex and cumbersome administrative procedures which make it easier for researchers to access national funding rather than eu funding and make europe unpopular in research. it is also essential that research and development policy is implemented on a territorial basis in order to ensure a balanced distribution of research to all universities. the quality often achieved in cities could be ensured by strengthening intangible links, for example through regular videoconferencing and by cleverly linking territorial research centres with centres of excellence.
in writing. − the lisbon european council of 23 and 24 march 2000 set an ambitious strategic objective for the european union (eu): to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. this strategy recognises the essential role of research. the seventh framework programme, with a budget of 54 billion for 2007-13, is one of the most important research support programmes in the world and is the main instrument of eu research policy. its aim is to enable the european union to respond to the major societal challenges that concern all member states and that cannot be tackled by a single member state (ageing populations and health, energy and water supply or food security, sustainable development, combating climate change, etc.) and to increase knowledge by enabling businesses to innovate more and increase their competitiveness. in this report, the european parliament carries out a mid-term evaluation to ensure that the seventh framework programme meets eu policy needs. i agree that in order to maximise the effectiveness of this programme, it is necessary to simplify as quickly as possible the complex and cumbersome administrative procedures in order to achieve the creation of a european research area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a proper mid-term evaluation of the eu's seventh research, technological development and demonstration programme is crucial to determine whether the programme is delivering on its objectives. it is one of the most important research support programmes in the world and is the main instrument of eu research policy. in addition, in many of the recent documents setting out its development objectives and guidelines for the next decade, the european union has stressed the importance of research and innovation in strengthening the eu economy and keeping it among the most competitive in the world. in addition to the generally positive assessment, the communication draws the commission's attention to a number of aspects of the implementation of the programme and makes specific proposals for improving them. for example, it is proposed to increase the funding of the programme, but at the same time it is proposed to identify which general research areas offer the greatest promise for specific application and where they can be most widely acted upon from an ethical point of view in order to achieve tangible results in the implementation of this programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for the implementation of the seventh framework programme to take into account the different impact of the economic crisis in the final years of the programme (2011 to 2013) in each member state, as there is still a large amount (eur 28.8 billion over three years) to be planned, to be used to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to be ready to implement the european research area and the innovation union initiative, and in particular calls for alignment of the objectives of the seventh framework programme with the eu's strategies on resource efficiency, raw materials and the digital agenda. the remaining amounts should not be deducted from the research area and used to cover expenditure on other programmes or measures not related to the research and innovation sector and to the objectives of the seventh framework programme. it is necessary to strengthen, promote and secure funding for the development of research in the european union by significantly increasing the related costs from 2013 onwards, as such increased funding, ideally through budgetary increases, should foster sustainable growth and competition through excellence. the approach needs to be combined with a more results-oriented, efficiency-oriented approach and radical simplification of funding procedures. i believe that there is a need to support further cooperation between eu research, technological development and innovation programmes and i believe that the continuity of the future programme once established is important for all stakeholders.
in writing. − dear colleagues, research and innovation are important for ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth in lithuania. according to a world bank study, lithuania has a high potential to become a dynamic, knowledge-based economy. however, the study also states that my country faces management, structural and regulatory problems in the research and development (r&d) sector. these obstacles must be overcome if we are to make real progress. this also poses problems for europe. r & d spending in europe is low compared to other global powers due to a lack of private investment and a favourable environment for innovation. i agree with the rapporteur that there is an urgent need for better coordination and co-financing of research projects within the union. in addition, research facilities and infrastructure in central and eastern europe need to be modernised and expanded. this will boost european competitiveness and help to overcome the infrastructure gaps between the old and new member states. i also believe that research and technological development must be made more accessible to ordinary europeans. according to a survey by the european commission, only 10% of europeans think they are well informed about science, while 65% think governments need to do more to get young people interested in science. we should do the same.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on eu-canada trade relations. canada is one of the eu's oldest and closest partners and was the first industrialised country with which the eu signed a trade and economic cooperation framework agreement in 1976. however, the potential of the eu-canada economic relationship is not yet fully exploited and i believe that an eu-canada free trade agreement can make a significant contribution to the development and implementation of this potential by improving trade and investment flows and removing maximum tariffs and unjustified non-tariff barriers and promoting closer cooperation, in particular in the areas of regulation, labour mobility and recognition of professional qualifications. i welcome an agreement with canada that goes beyond wto commitments and complements multilateral rules, provided that negotiations reach a harmonised, ambitious and high-quality agreement that goes beyond tariff reductions and includes other measures such as the application of the principle of reciprocity in conjunction with existing legal instruments in trade disputes, improves the protection of intellectual property rights, including the protection of trademarks, patents and geographical indications.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. canada is one of the eu's oldest and closest partners and was the first industrialised country with which the eu signed a trade and economic cooperation framework agreement in 1976. over a long period, a number of bilateral agreements have been signed to facilitate closer trade relations, and the eu is now canada's second largest trading partner and the second largest source of foreign direct investment in canada. i agree that the potential of the eu-canada economic relationship is not yet fully exploited . the proposed free trade agreement could make a significant contribution to the development of the economic partnership and would be a clear growth-enhancing signal to investors and businesses in the eu and canada.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the eu and canada have close trade and foreign direct investment relations. the negotiations on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement aim at a very advanced agreement, going beyond any trade and economic agreement between the eu and canada that has been concluded so far, and further accelerating the already vibrant bilateral trade and investment relationship. i supported the view that an agreement with canada that goes beyond wto commitments and adds multilateral rules provided that a negotiated agreement is reached that is coherent, ambitious and of high quality. it is considered that the agricultural chapters will be an important issue for both sides in these negotiations. the potential for significant concessions in the areas of genetically modified products, milk and labelling of origin is a matter of concern. therefore, the interests and priorities in the field of agriculture should be fully taken into account, the agreement should benefit eu and canadian consumers as well as the agricultural sector of both countries, and, by achieving a coordinated overall outcome, ensure greater but fair competition in the supply of agricultural products from eu and canadian suppliers. i welcome the initial commitment by both parties not to maintain, introduce or reintroduce export subsidies on traded agricultural products as a positive step in the ambitious and fair negotiations and the agreement to cooperate in the wto negotiations on agriculture.
in writing. − the agreement will stimulate and accelerate active bilateral trade and investment links. the liberalisation of trade relations will bring mutual benefits to business entities and create more favourable investment conditions. in order to achieve a comprehensive and high-quality agreement that goes beyond wto commitments, both parties should not impose requirements that run counter to their internal policies or institutional arrangements. in addition, the principle of reciprocity should be applied in cases of trade disputes, the protection of intellectual property rights should be improved and mutual access to the market for services and public procurement should be granted. particular attention should be paid to the agricultural sector and consumers. we must maintain a firm stance on genetically modified products and milk and on labelling of origin. fair and increased competition between suppliers of agricultural products must be ensured. i believe that the commission should only start investment negotiations with canada after parliament has expressed its position on the future common eu investment policy. the most vulnerable sectors of both countries must be protected from falling within the scope of the investment agreements. the commission must maintain a firm position on the ban on seal products and canada should withdraw its request to the wto to establish a formal dispute settlement group on this issue. such a requirement is not in line with the principles of a positive commercial relationship.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on credit rating agencies: the future. the ratings issued by credit rating agencies serve a number of useful functions: they provide information on the creditworthiness of issuers in a global environment. ratings allow issuers to assess the situation in global and local markets, reduce information costs and broaden the circle of potential investors, thereby providing liquidity to markets and helping to set prices. the recent financial crisis has highlighted three problems in the sector: a lack of competition, an over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory process and the lack of legal responsibility of credit rating agencies for ratings. i agree with the rapporteur that credit ratings are not just opinions and that credit rating agencies should be responsible for their ratings. therefore, in order to anticipate a tangible threat, the civil liability of credit rating agencies should be increased.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. rating agencies not only rate private equity firms and their products, but also countries. the rating of a country depends on the conditions under which it can expect to borrow on international markets. in the face of negative ratings and financial difficulties, the country is entering a debt spiral, as a falling rating makes borrowing more expensive and thus further complicates the state's financial situation. all market participants and market surveillance authorities should be aware of the criteria for determining the ratings and should be able to verify them themselves. the commission is invited to work with the g20 countries to develop a new global valuation methodology that would reduce the likelihood of errors, regulate the activities of rating companies and reduce the risks associated with financial valuation. i agree with the proposal that europe needs to establish its own credit rating agency as soon as possible, with objective and independent assessments. i support the call in the communication for the creation of its own independent rating agency, which is proposed to be called the european credit rating fund in the first stage. the success of the reform of financial valuation will depend not only on the ability of all eu member states to borrow on fair terms on international markets, but also on the stability of the global financial system as a whole and on the effectiveness of crisis prevention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the credit rating sector faces a number of problems, the most important of which are competition, lack of accountability and transparency and oligopolistic structures. the problem of the dominant rating agencies in particular is the payment model, and the main problem of the regulatory system is the over-reliance on external credit ratings. as you know, credit rating agencies evaluate three different sectors: public sector, corporate and structured finance. therefore, an unavoidable conflict of interest arises if market participants carry out an internal credit risk assessment relating to their own regulatory capital requirements. i believe that the responsibilities, capacity, powers and resources of supervisory authorities, the monitoring, evaluation and oversight of the adequacy of internal models, and the establishment of risk mitigation measures need to be increased. i believe that credit ratings should facilitate the objective of informing the market in such a way that investors receive a comprehensive assessment of credit risk across all sectors and countries, that it is important to allow consumers to have better oversight of credit rating agencies and that the key role of greater transparency in their activities should be emphasised in this regard. i am convinced that the creation of new credit rating agencies should be supported and that the possibility of distortion of competition should be avoided.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the future prospects of credit rating agencies. the credit rating sector is frequently confronted with problems of competition, lack of accountability and transparency, and oligopolistic structures. in this context, the commission should consider the possibility of establishing a completely new independent european credit rating fund, which would have the right to participate in decisions on sovereign debt ratings and credit rating agencies. the management, staff and governance structure of this fund would be fully independent and autonomous. i support the proposal to establish eu-wide civil liability for credit rating agencies in cases of gross negligence or misconduct. in addition, the capacity of supervisory authorities, their responsibilities, powers and resources to monitor, assess and monitor the adequacy of internal models and to establish risk mitigation measures and to carry out investigations and inspections must be strengthened. a level playing field for credit rating agencies is essential to promote competition, transparency and the openness and stability of markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the external dimension of social policy promoting labour and social standards and on european corporate social responsibility. it should be noted that the external dimension of social policy covers eu activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries. this includes the access of men and women to decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and dignity. international labour standards should, in particular, help to ensure the development of the individual as a human being. people are not commodities to be negotiated. work is part of our daily lives and is essential to personal dignity, well-being and development. the eu has a good reputation in the field of international social dialogue. in this respect, it is considered a sensitive and reliable partner. this must be used to achieve the more ambitious objectives set by the eu. one of them is to develop a coherent, integrated and professional eu approach to the external dimension of social policy. the main activities are coordinated by the european parliament, but also in conjunction with the european commission and the newly established external action service.
in writing. − the external dimension of social policy covers eu activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries. the eu has set itself the goal not only of becoming a model for corporate social responsibility (csr), but also of promoting csr in its external policy. non-compliance with key international social standards is a form of social and environmental dumping that is damaging to european businesses and workers. i agree with the need to strengthen the role of the relevant international institutions, such as the international labour organisation (ilo), the world trade organisation (wto), the organisation for european cooperation and development (oecd) and the united nations, and to encourage their cooperation in the development, implementation and enforcement of key international social standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because there are still cases of inadequate or partial implementation of the conventions and agreements of the international labour organisation and of breaches of the principles of corporate social responsibility. international labour standards should, in particular, help to ensure the rights of workers, as work is part of our daily lives and is essential for the dignity, well-being and development of the individual. alongside social standards, corporate social responsibility should contribute to sustainable growth, but companies should not avoid dialogue with workers and should respect and promote decent employment relations, encourage workers' participation through consultation and information, collective bargaining, the development of their professional skills and lifelong learning, adhere to safety standards at work, promote equality between men and women, create an enabling environment for the social partners to anticipate and manage labour market developments, including restructuring, improve the quality of work, integrate and protect vulnerable groups of workers such as young people, older people, disabled people and migrants. the european union should therefore continue to apply sanctions and incentives in bilateral and regional agreements in order to ensure the implementation of the social provisions of eu agreements. it is also essential that governments themselves do not abdicate their responsibility for preserving the european social model, otherwise there is a risk of privatisation of labour law and social security systems and services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, at the beginning of the new century, the eu changed its strategy on the external dimension of social policy and adopted a softer approach, focusing on international cooperation and dialogue rather than social standards linked to trade agreements. the eu uses a variety of instruments to implement its social policy in third countries. these are legally binding, legally non-binding and financial instruments. the use of these instruments is evidence that the eu expects a certain behaviour in its relations with its trading partners. however, the implementation and application of these measures in the partner countries is a major obstacle. it is therefore necessary that the eu makes greater efforts to apply and implement them, in particular the ilo conventions and the principles of corporate social responsibility. the legal framework of the country often impedes this, but weak political will and internal economic pressures also play a role. another important factor is that workers are not aware of their rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on european cooperation in vocational training in support of the europe 2020 strategy. the opportunity and ability to learn and work in an international environment is an important prerequisite for a successful professional life in a globalised economy. there is an increasing need for workers who are mobile, flexible and experienced in an international environment. this is why urgent action is needed, especially in the context of young people. the increasing rate of youth unemployment is one of the most urgent problems in europe. member states are required to implement a targeted policy strategy in the fight against poverty, taking into account national characteristics and needs. i agree with the resolution that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to reduce early school leaving to below 10% and to increase university graduation to 40% need to be achieved through concrete, creative and effective means. with demographic change increasing the demand for continuing training and the need for lifelong learning, it is necessary to provide workers with a tool to enable them to define and plan their own needs for continuing training. in addition, access to finance for people in different life situations and specific groups of people in the field of vocational training and education must be made broad, simplified and more accessible, through all lifelong learning programmes and the erasmus for young entrepreneurs project. we must ensure that europe's workers are able to adapt to the demands of the economy.
in writing. − the opportunity and ability to learn and work in an international environment is an important prerequisite for a successful professional life in a globalised economy. there is an increasing need for workers who are mobile, flexible and experienced in an international environment. the key issues listed in the europe 2020 strategy for smart growth (promoting knowledge, innovation, education and the digital society), sustainable growth (production with better resource efficiency and thus increased competitiveness) and inclusive growth (increasing employment, improving skills and fighting poverty) also need to be addressed through specific measures in the field of vocational training and education at european union level and in the member states. action is urgently needed, especially in view of the increasing rate of youth unemployment. not only are young workers more likely to be unemployed than older workers, but their employment relationships are more temporary, their wages are lower, and their social security coverage is lower. i agree that the eu institutions should take a more pragmatic, comprehensive and ambitious initiative, endorsed by all member states, aimed at integrating vocational education and training, vocational skills, lifelong learning, traineeships and the labour market, in order to fully implement the flagship initiative 'agenda for new skills and jobs' under the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i agree that, in the face of demographic change and increasing life expectancy, the need for as diverse a range of work experience as possible and the need for lifelong retraining and development is already a necessity. for these reasons, the report highlights the need to modernise both initial and continuing vocational education and training, proposes an assessment of the propensity for certain professions at the end of basic education and stresses the importance of initial teacher training. it also stresses the need to promote more effective cooperation between institutions, agencies, research centres and enterprises at local and regional levels in order to change the closed nature of education systems and to eliminate the gap between knowledge and skills and labour market needs. i agree that in order to create a more modern training and education, the link between potential employers and training institutions needs to be strengthened, and that involving the social partners in the design of training programmes would be another step towards greater employment in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because europe needs to act with urgency, especially with regard to young people. not only are young workers more likely to be unemployed than older workers, but they are also more likely to have precarious and temporary employment relationships, lower wages and poorer social security coverage. member states are required to implement a targeted policy strategy in the fight against poverty, taking into account national characteristics and needs. the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy to reduce early school leaving to below 10% and to increase the number of graduates at university level to 40% need to be achieved through concrete, creative and effective means. vocational training and training must be a long-term common political priority and its implementation requires the involvement and commitment of all stakeholders: not only the eu institutions and the member states, but also local and regional stakeholders should contribute to the achievement of these objectives. we must ensure that europe's workers are able to adapt to the demands of the economy. policy makers need to enable people to develop and acquire more skills. skills development should not be seen as a mere means of getting a better job, but should enable people to shape the jobs of the future and thus actively contribute to the development of an innovative economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because cooperation at european union level in the field of vocational training is a crucial factor in achieving the europe 2020 goals and reducing youth unemployment. i support the proposal that each member state should pay particular attention to low-skilled people, migrants, ethnic minorities, disabled people and other socially vulnerable groups in the design of its vocational training and education system. learning programmes should be geared to their needs and level of ability. in addition, there is a need to promote closer cooperation between the different education systems in the member states in order to ensure the integration of young people, to promote lifelong learning and formal and non-formal learning. in order to ensure that vocational training meets the needs of the labour market, i believe it is appropriate to include data on labour market developments in national education strategies and programmes. the commission has a major role to play in this area, providing information on the skills and training needs of individual regions and on developments in the eu labour market. it is also essential to create a favourable business environment for companies that cooperate in the development and implementation of vocational training programmes.
in writing. − colleagues, one of the main reasons why lithuania has such a shockingly high youth unemployment rate (34%) is the disproportion between the skills of young people and the needs of the labour market. in 2010, 52% of all unemployed young people (50 000) who registered on the lithuanian labour exchange had no vocational training. the inability of young people in my country to find suitable work is causing a large wave of youth emigration - every second lithuanian who has emigrated in the last few years has been between 20 and 34 years old. the need for a mobile and flexible workforce is growing, and we need to help european workers adapt to the needs of the economy by giving them the opportunity to upgrade their skills and knowledge. it is important that vocational training is accessible to all. i am glad that the rapporteur understands this. esf funding could be invaluable in helping to provide training to the marginalised sections of lithuanian society. it is also time for the eu to use effective and creative means to achieve the europe 2020 goals of reducing the number of out-of-school children to 10% and ensuring that 40% of young people have access to higher education.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation: lessons learned and future prospects. 2011 is a strategically important time to draw on the experience gained during the four years of application of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financial instrument for development cooperation (financial instrument for development cooperation - fci). further simplification of the structure of the common external financing instruments, its adaptation to new challenges such as climate change and the definition of the appropriate external dimension of eu internal policies are important aspects to be taken into account. i agree with the resolution that the future eu development aid instrument must be properly prepared from a financial point of view. the eu has committed itself to the overall target of 0.7% of its gnp for official development assistance by 2015. this will require a significant increase in the current level of european aid. coordination and division of labour must be the main principles of programming under the new development instrument. the concept of european strategy papers should be further developed as an important priority issue and the european parliament should be actively involved in this process. the post-2013 development cooperation instrument should allow parliament to defend the specificity of eu development policy and to discuss strategic programming decisions with the council on an equal footing.
in writing. − the overarching objective of development cooperation is the eradication of poverty in partner countries, including the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs). to achieve these objectives, the eu needs a specific instrument for financing development cooperation. the commission is committed to presenting a legislative proposal on the financial instruments for external action later this year and to reviewing the overall structure of the external financing instruments in the context of the next multiannual financial perspective. i voted in favour of this document, which sets out the ep's position on a new financial instrument for eu development cooperation. i agree that the future eu development assistance instrument must be adequately prepared from a financial point of view, taking into account the commitments made by the eu in this area to allocate 0.7% of its gnp to official development assistance by 2015.
in writing. − i endorsed the report because 2011 is a strategically important time to draw on the experience gained in the four years of application of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financial instrument for development cooperation (financial instrument for development cooperation - fci). this report aims to establish, at an early stage, parliament's position on a new financial instrument for eu development cooperation, based on the experience gained from the examination of the implementation of the cfsp. i agreed that a differentiated approach was needed for a diverse group of developing countries and that traditional financial support may no longer be as important in emerging economies. i believe that support to emerging economies, which promotes sustainable growth, should continue to focus on strengthening fiscal policies in partner countries and encouraging domestic revenue mobilisation, which should help reduce poverty and aid dependency. it is necessary not to provide budget support to countries where transparency of public finances is not guaranteed and to ensure that budget support is always directed towards developing the capacity of parliamentary control and audit in the beneficiary country and to increasing transparency and public access to information, as well as ensuring the involvement of civil society in its monitoring.
in writing. − development cooperation is the only area of external policy action that protects the most socially excluded and vulnerable groups in society. the commission must make every effort to provide adequate and sufficient support for the development of the private sector and small and medium-sized enterprises in low-income countries. particular attention shall be paid to migration. it is essential to ensure that funds allocated to combating illegal migration are used in a targeted manner. it should be noted that the establishment of a new financial instrument for developing countries only must in all cases be accompanied by a detailed analysis of the overall objectives, priorities of action and expected results, as well as the allocation of funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on ensuring independent impact assessments. i agree with the rapporteurs that impact assessment is a key legislative tool that european legislators should make more use of in the future. the impact assessment shows the legislator the possible consequences of its options and helps to take a decision. impact assessment can therefore make a significant contribution to better regulation. however, it does not in any way replace the political discourse and the decision-making process of a democratic and legitimate legislator. it should be noted that impact assessment only contributes to the specific content of a policy decision. it is important that the impact assessment is carried out in full independence and transparency and that the consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises are taken into account. the european parliament can already use its impact assessment and scrutinise the commission's impact assessment. however, this procedure has so far been used very rarely. i agree with the position expressed in the resolution that the european parliament must make more active use of the rights it has been granted in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. impact assessment (ia) is a key tool in the development of legislation, which shows the legislator the possible consequences of its options and helps to make a decision, and which european legislators should make more use of in the future. the eu can make a significant contribution to better regulation. i agree that it is necessary to involve external experts and stakeholders from all affected policy areas in the impact assessment process in order to ensure the independence and objectivity of the study being carried out.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i agree that it is very important to continuously improve the quality of eu legislation, and it is this report that sets out concrete proposals for improving the legislative process both in the european parliament and in the commission. the commission has been carrying out impact assessments for some time before submitting proposals for draft legislation to the european parliament and the council, but the report states that these impact assessment procedures still need to be significantly improved. for example, the independence of the impact assessment board, which is currently subordinate to the president of the commission, should be strengthened. the report also calls for the european parliament and its committees to carry out more frequent impact assessments of draft legislation and to examine more closely the impact assessments carried out by the commission, which it says still often serve more to justify a legislative proposal than to consider facts objectively. this prior impact assessment of proposed eu legislation was further strengthened by the lisbon treaty, which included provisions on the social and environmental impact of any proposed legislation.
in writing. − i supported this report because impact assessment (ia) is a key legislative tool that european legislators should make more use of in the future. the benefits of the ip are clear. the ip shall demonstrate to the legislator the possible consequences of its operational possibilities and assist in decision-making. the eu can therefore make a major contribution to better regulation. however, the goc does not in any way alter the political discourse and the decision-making process of a democratic and legitimate legislator. the ip only contributes to the elaboration of the specific content of the political decision. the draft report is divided into four parts. in particular, common requirements are established for the ce at european level. the second part of the report discusses the impact assessment of the european commission and shows the possibilities for improving the situation. the third part is devoted to the ip carried out by the european parliament. the fourth and final part calls for the establishment of an autonomous mechanism for the ep's pa in the european parliament, which should be used by all parliament's committees to further improve legislation and build links.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the green paper from the commission on policy options for progress towards a european contract law for consumers and business. contract law determines and organises transactions within the internal market, its potential for both hindering and facilitating those transactions is therefore obvious. choosing the right way forward in the area of contract law can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market and opening up its full potential for businesses, in particular smes, and consumers. the potential benefits of european contract law to the internal market have been discussed for a many years. the ep pronounced itself for the first time on the issue in 1989 and with this resolution which the ep adopted today, it intends to respond to the recent commission green paper on european contract law, and to set out the parliament's priorities in this area. i support the view of the rapporteur that the option of setting up an optional instrument (oi) for european contract law by virtue of a regulation is to be favoured. it could be complemented by a "toolbox" for commission and legislator which should be implemented by an interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in the wake of the global financial crisis, it is essential to unlock the full potential of the internal market and thus contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. today, the single market remains fragmented for a number of reasons, including the failure to implement the existing single market legislation. consumers lack confidence in crossborder trade and businesses face significant administrative and legal difficulties when expanding their activities in other eu member states. differences in national contract law lead to additional transaction costs, legal uncertainty for businesses and insufficient consumer confidence in the internal market. partly for these reasons, consumers and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) with limited resources, avoid international transactions, which prevent the creation of a competitive internal market. i support the call in the report for action and for proposals to harmonise contract law practices at eu level to ensure a level playing field and a fair playing field for market participants.
in writing. − if you have i abstained in voting in favour of this report because, although, according to the rapporteur, one of the most obvious obstacles faced by consumers and smes in the single market is the complexity of contractual relationships. it is therefore proposed to create a common european contract law which would benefit consumers and help to ensure more active cross-border trade in the internal market. according to the rapporteur, all parties to contracts, whether in business-to-business transactions or in consumer-to-business transactions, should be free to choose whether to apply the bcp as an alternative to national or international law (optional application). more attention should be paid to the objective of ensuring that the application of the ttber protects consumers and small enterprises, taking into account their position as the weaker partner in commercial relations, and to preventing any confusion in the choice of the applicable law. i abstained because the eu recently adopted a regulatory instrument in this area, rome i, which protects consumer rights well, and this proposal is based on the uk situation only, which would only cause confusion and increase bureaucracy.
in writing. − a uniform contract law regime must apply in the european union. in particular, to remove barriers related to the complexity of contractual relationships that consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises often face. moreover, the common european contract law ensures more active cross-border trade in the internal market. the current roma i regulation is a sufficient regulatory instrument, providing a high degree of protection for the weaker party to the contract. the provisions of this regulation provide protection for consumers wishing to have recourse to their remedies against an undertaking of another member state with which they have concluded a contract. given that the european union already has a legal regulatory mechanism in place and working effectively in this area, i do not support this resolution on the political options for the creation of a european contract law for consumers and businesses, which proposes the adoption of a new regulation establishing a new optional measure applicable to business-to-business transactions and to consumer-to-business transactions. it is to be noted that the new regulation would create a lot of confusion and uncertainty in this area. in addition, additional funds and a more bureaucratic mechanism should be allocated for its implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on gdp and other indicators to measure progress in a changing world. gdp is an indicator of economic market activity, which is used as a standard criterion by policymakers worldwide. it should be noted that gdp is measured in terms of production and does not reflect ecological sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general. moreover, gdp can be misleading because, following certain incidents, such as accidents and natural disasters, the remedial measures applied are treated as benefits rather than costs. i therefore support the resolution's view that additional indicators for the assessment of medium and long-term economic and social progress should be developed and that clear and measurable indicators should be established to provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion. it is also necessary to develop indicators that better reflect the level of households: income, consumption and welfare. it is therefore important to develop a tool that complements gdp it should be designed in a way that is practical and uses clearly defined indicators and is based on high quality data.
in writing. − gross domestic product (gdp) is an indicator of economic market performance that is used as a standard benchmark by policymakers worldwide and is best known as a measure of macroeconomic performance. in terms of gdp, it does not reflect today's concerns about environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general. i support the commission's proposal to develop additional principles for the assessment of economic and social progress in the medium and long term and to establish clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because gdp is an indicator of economic market activity, which is used as a standard criterion by policymakers worldwide. however, gdp is measured in terms of production and does not reflect ecological sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general. moreover, gdp can be misleading because, following certain incidents, such as accidents and natural disasters, the remedial measures applied are treated as benefits rather than costs. additional indicators for the assessment of medium- and long-term economic and social progress need to be developed. i believe that we need clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion, and that we need to develop indicators that better reflect the level of households: income, consumption and well-being. there is also a need to measure the quality of life of societies, as the achievement and maintenance of quality of life requires consideration of such important and widely recognised factors as health, education, culture, employment, housing, environmental conditions, etc. more attention should be paid to indicators which measure those factors. further improvements in qualitative and quantitative measures need to be based on the european quality of life survey indicators covering key quality of life areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on gdp and other indicators to measure the overall development and progress of society. gdp is an indicator of economic market activity, which is used as a standard criterion by policymakers worldwide. however, this indicator is not exhaustive. it does not reflect environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress. in addition, in certain cases, gdp may provide inaccurate or misleading information. in this context, every effort should be made to develop additional medium- and long-term indicators to assess the above factors and the level of households. i agree with the proposal that the quality of life of a society should be assessed with a strong focus on health, education, culture, employment, housing and other similar factors related to the key areas of quality of life. we therefore need to look at ways of developing a suitable and effective measure to complement gdp that can be effectively applied in practice and using clearly defined indicators and based on high-quality data.
in writing. - dear colleagues, a quick look at the imf gdp scale (eu is in first place, lithuania 82), shows that gdp does not reflect the whole picture. gdp does not adequately reflect the complex socioeconomic reality of national and regional challenges. while gdp is a strong macroeconomic indicator, it does not reflect lithuania's major social problems, such as unemployment, the quality of education and health systems, and the disparities in income distribution. clear information, data and indicators are often lacking at lithuanian and eu level, and i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to provide better reporting on social indicators. i hope this will provide more information for policy-making. unfortunately, politicians today often lack that information. eu policy-making should not be based on abstract statistics alone. in particular, eu policy should be measured by the progress made in improving the well-being of europeans. the method mentioned in this report can be very useful for more than gdp. however, before we can put it into practice, we should learn more about the practical application of the new method in everyday life.
in writing. galileo, together with egnos (the european geostationary navigation service, a complementary system that improves the accuracy and reliability of the us global positioning system (gps), is the eu's gnss. when completed, it should comprise 27 satellites and an appropriate number of backup satellites in orbit at an altitude of approximately 23 000 km above the earth's surface and a global network of approximately 40 ground stations. the eu decided to create its own global satellite navigation system for two main reasons: first, to ensure europe's independence and autonomy from other global navigation systems, and second, to take part in this huge growth of the global market for advanced technologies, which is currently dominated by the us. i agree that there should be a broad and detailed political debate on the level of ambition desired (whereby the level of services provided is decided) and the financial resources available (whereby the political choice between a programme financed solely by the eu and one in which national or private entities are allowed to contribute is required). the outcome of this discussion will influence policy options for the future governance and management of gnss systems.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document because this report is a response to the commission communication on the mid-term review of the development of the european global navigation satellite systems (gnss) (galileo and egnos), which assesses the process and implementation to date and which opens the debate on the future governance, operation and financing of this initiative. the eu decided to create its own global satellite navigation system for two main reasons: first, to ensure europe's independence and autonomy from other global navigation systems, and second, to take part in this huge growth of the global market for advanced technologies, which is currently dominated by the us. the indirect benefits of the programme are estimated to be around eur 60 billion per year (including consumer and supplier markets and benefits to society). gnss is considered a disruptive technology with a high potential for innovation, the creation of a knowledge base of advanced technologies and the potential to increase productivity in many sectors. the market for gnss-based products and services is expected to grow by more than 10% per year. the commission should carry out a detailed analysis to further identify possible scenarios and modalities for operation and exploitation beyond 2013. this includes all aspects of commercial operation, as well as the legal, contractual and financing structures of the different operating models that will ensure that a stable governance model is established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe. i support the rapporteur that with the rejection of the option of freezing the resources, as proposed by five heads of government in december 2010 (france, united kingdom, the netherlands, germany and finland), the european parliament is sending a strong political signal for the negotiations between the 27 member states, due to start after the official presentation of the european commission proposal expected on 29 june. it is important to note that unanimity between the member states and the asset of the european parliament are needed to take the final decision, not expected until at least june 2012. we, members of the european parliament, demand at least an increase of the level of resources of 5% compared to the 2013 budget. it is also important to note that the european parliament proposes to introduce a new structure for the financial framework under a single 'europe 2020' heading and asks for a 5, or 5+5 year-long framework as of 2021.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european union faces enormous challenges, which will require a high level of financial capacity to overcome. it is clear that the current system of eu budgetary resources will not be able to guarantee the implementation of all the commitments made. i agree that a fundamental revision of the budgetary principles is necessary to ensure that in future the eu budget is financed from own resources. it is also necessary to consider as soon as possible innovative financing instruments such as a financial transaction tax, which could make a significant contribution to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european parliament's contribution to the debate on how the eu budget should be allocated in the future (2014-2020) and which areas of funding should help europe recover from the global crisis is crucial. following a debate, a resolution adopted criticised the idea of some member states to freeze the eu budget at 2013 levels in view of the financial difficulties faced by many eu countries in recent years. instead, the eu's financial perspective for 2014-2020 called for continued funding for areas that promote growth and successful development. these include research and innovation, the fight against unemployment, poverty and exclusion, adequate preparedness for demographic change, responsible use of natural resources, internal and external security, regional and agricultural policies, energy and transport infrastructure development.
in writing. − the eu's financial perspective for 2014-2020 calls for adequate funding for areas that promote growth and successful development, such as research and innovation, the fight against unemployment, poverty and exclusion, adequate preparedness for demographic change, the responsible use of natural resources, internal and external security, regional and agricultural policies, energy and transport infrastructure development. i abstained in voting in favour of this document because we need to fundamentally revise the common agricultural policy, which must ensure a fair and equal system of direct payments, and many other important areas without which we will not have a competitive and strong europe.
in writing. − we need to establish a multiannual financing framework that ensures transparent and efficient financing of eu policies and prevents a recurrence of the crisis. the europe 2020 strategy should be mentioned as a guideline for the implementation of the programme. in particular, any new system of budgetary financing must not increase the burden on national treasuries and the tax burden on citizens. in order to reduce the dissatisfaction of eu citizens with existing expenditure, it is necessary to improve the quality of implementation and application of expenditure. the transparency of the allocation and use of funds needs to be increased and administrative costs and bureaucracy reduced. strong focus on poverty and unemployment reduction, industry and energy, and the creation of a knowledge-based society. sufficient funding must be provided for large-scale research and technological development projects. given the importance of smes, appropriate funding should be allocated to improve their conditions of operation. i do not support the proposal to reduce cap funding in the future, as agriculture is a particularly sensitive sector. the reduction in funding will have particularly negative consequences for farmers in all eu countries. the european social fund should become a political priority for achieving social and employment objectives. the systems for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of cohesion policy need to be improved. as the eu approaches a new stage of enlargement, the mff must provide for a well-balanced expenditure.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the next multiannual financial framework (mff) is a great opportunity to show the people of europe that the union can achieve long-term objectives such as promoting strong growth and internal cohesion. this is an opportunity we can't afford to miss. it is good that the rapporteur emphasises the importance of cohesion policy for growth and employment. it is important for lithuania that the amount of cohesion policy in the next mff should not be lower than in the current financial period. european cohesion policy continues to play an important role in reducing the large economic and social disparities between member states. for example, lithuania's gdp per capita remains low (when we joined the eu, it was 48% of the union average). however, by 2020, lithuania's gdp is expected to be at least 50% higher than without cohesion policy assistance. lithuania's efforts to improve transport infrastructure and accessibility (23% of the total structural funds allocation), to improve the r & d potential (22%), to support business creation are dependent on cohesion policy. the declining cohesion policy funds will continue to squeeze our economy. we can't let that happen. trust in the eu will only return when our citizens are convinced that the union serves their values and interests.
madam president, i would like to refer to something that was mentioned before; the rights of future generations. it looks very unique in the hungarian constitution, something that is being enshrined in the hungarian constitution, and recognised seemingly also here. this raises a question i would like to ask about the basic right of those eventual members of future generations – to be born. is caring about future human beings a european value – or not? maybe not european, only hungarian? then europe should look to hungary with gratitude for reminding it of some fundamentals.
i ask and invite the heads of the eu institutions to remember human rights at the eu-russia summit starting tomorrow. it is clear that respect for human rights is the foundation of values without which neither a strategic partnership nor the modernisation of eu-russia relations is possible. the specific case that needs to be discussed is the decision of the moscow city court of may 24 to reject the appeal of mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev against the new seven-year sentence. in the 21st century, we are all witnessing a shameful trial, the verdicts of which are being written outside the court. and this is happening in a country that has what is called a strategic partnership with the eu. the moscow court decision once again exposed serious flaws in the russian judicial system and reinforced the view that those who have political ambitions in russia and whose views are not in line with the kremlin are punished. the european court of human rights ruling of 31 may, violations of the european convention on human rights in russia facts that also need to be discussed. and we, the european parliament, should say clearly: if russian president dmitry medvedev wants to come to the european parliament, he should appear here with the prisoner of conscience mikhail khodorkovsky, and this would be the most effective strategy and tactic for russia's modernisation. president medvedev and prisoner of conscience m. khodorkovsky together in the european parliament - a sight that deserves not only the attention of the world media, but also the sincere support of a democratic society.
this summit is special because it will take place against the backdrop of the upcoming elections in russia. we will await a firm signal from brussels to russia on elections in accordance with democratic standards that ensure diversity of opinion in the duma. nuclear safety is a major concern after fukushima. i am pleased that the commissioner has mentioned that this issue will be raised at the meeting and that the highest international safety standards will be required for both existing and planned nuclear power stations in russia and, of course, in the european union. i think we should be talking about the european union and russia's relations with belarus. the rapprochement of positions would help to open the prison doors to the recent candidates for the post of president of belarus, and prevent gross violations of human rights. i would very much support my colleagues who said that we need to move from words to action in the area of visa facilitation, and not just with russia, but with all the eastern neighbours of the european union. poland, which is taking over the eu presidency, has already found ways to engage in a more fruitful dialogue with russia, so we will be looking for concrete steps in eu-russia relations in the coming six months.
madam president, i see parliament’s resolution as europe’s hand extended to the russia of today which needs, despite all its baseless pride and inherited arrogance, a really friendly advice and action plan. as the human rights consultations advising president medvedev have called for an essential renovation of the national house from basement to roof, our parliament is coming not with empty appeasement but with constructive provision of cooperation. the greatest chance appears there if russia is open and striving to build an open society, not one that is closed in backward stalinism. unfortunately, russia’s pressure on the rest of the g8 to accept the occupied territories of georgia in the wto system on the side of russia, does not testify to their really good will. if it is true that the west has consented to this, it is unfortunately thus showing its weakness just before the nizhniy novgorod summit .
today we are talking and debating a very specific, country-specific issue, but nevertheless environmental impact assessment is a rather complex and complex issue both at national and international levels. perhaps the biggest problem is the crisis of public confidence in environmental impact assessments, i.e. that they are carried out with the payment of project promoters, etc. the public should therefore be more involved in this process, but of course a balance needs to be struck so that certain projects are not unduly delayed. another problem is the concept of post-project evaluation, where certain items are not mentioned, the environmental impact analysis, and certain side effects are revealed later. we voted yesterday on the principle of independence in the impact assessment system. this should naturally apply to environmental law as well, and in the review of the eia directive we should focus on this very issue. (the president agreed to answer the question after the blue card had been raised, pursuant to rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to stress that compliance with the rules is very important, but there are cases where certain interest groups, perhaps by manipulating public sentiment, try to influence the implementation of certain projects. however, as i have already stressed, independence, proper analysis and the independence of the experts must be guaranteed and everything must be done in accordance with the rules as laid down in the legislation.
madam president, i would like to say to mr reul that there was a time when power from unsafe nuclear plants was considered to be dirty and not to be bought by responsible eu states. those now planned to be constructed on the eu’s eastern borders belong to that exact category as their technology has not been experimented with before in more distant places. the assurances that they will be safe are only empty assurances. what does he think if germany, refusing to build nuclear plants on its own territory, accepts their being built at our borders and buys this dirty power? what kind of a picture of solidarity and morals is that?
for the efd group if we were to weigh the benefits of the nuclear industry against the risks and threats it poses, it is hard to say which one would be the right one. life has shown that nuclear power plants are not easily vulnerable - both chernobyl a quarter of a century ago and fukushima just a few months ago. the lithuanian side of the european union's external border is to be the site of, or more specifically, is the site of, disproportionately large nuclear power plants, whose safety and environmental impact are the subject of considerable debate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the crisis. we must ensure that the highest standards of nuclear safety are applied not only in europe but also beyond. we must make every effort to ensure that nuclear safety inspections are mandatory worldwide. in the field of nuclear safety, the european commission shall be given special attention. it must monitor and control whether the same approach is followed in neighbouring countries, especially those where nuclear power plants are to be built near europe's external borders, and whether the provisions of international conventions are not just on paper but are properly implemented. we must ensure that not only the member states of the european union but also neighbouring countries, in particular russia and belarus, adhere to the highest safety and environmental standards.
first of all, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important issue today, especially in the context of the european union's neighbourhood. radioactive pollution does not cross national borders. we felt it painfully after chernobyl and fukushima. the highest standards of nuclear safety should therefore also be legally binding and universal, facilities should be equally secure everywhere and the iaea should be strengthened. the european union has some of the highest standards in the world. to make the process even safer, we will conduct stress tests at existing, planned and decommissioned nuclear power plants. however, if we want to be safe, the same criteria must be applied to existing or planned facilities in the eu's neighbourhood (russia, belarus, turkey, armenia, switzerland, ukraine). to achieve this consistently, we must speak with one voice. today, a plant using a chernobyl-type reactor is still operating less than 100 km from the european union's external border, near st petersburg. even closer to the european union's borders, russia is planning two new nuclear power plants in belarus and in the kaliningrad region. the chimneys of one of these power stations will be as clearly visible from the lithuanian border as the tower of the strasbourg cathedral is from the parliament. both have similar problems. the environmental impact assessment has not yet been completed, the works have already begun, the criteria for selecting the site of a nuclear power plant have not yet been clarified, the possible alternative sites have not been analysed, and the general evacuation plans have not been prepared. the two nuclear power plants are planned to have experimental reactors, the safety of which cannot be properly assessed because they are not yet operational. belarus is not ready to develop nuclear energy in general, and the russian authorities not only do not respond to the questions of neighboring states, but also ignore the requests of their own citizens to hold consultations. for the second time, the registration of an initiative for a referendum on the construction of nuclear power plants has been blocked on the basis of formalities. one step towards encouraging the european union's neighbours to adopt the highest safety standards could be to refuse to buy electricity produced in a non-compliant manner across the union. we must not use the money of the citizens of the european union to support unsafe nuclear energy.
madam president, threats to eu nuclear power plants, if they are real, are a question of life and death for thousands of people. even small nations must be prepared for the most severe circumstances, including terrorist attacks and airplane crashes. how would the citizens of major eu countries feel if a non-democratic country built an insufficiently tested nuclear power plant close to brussels, berlin, paris or london, without consulting its public or sharing reliable information with its neighbouring countries? lithuania is currently facing such a situation. in close proximity to vilnius, belarus – with a total absence of transparency – is beginning to construct a nuclear plant. it is vitally important that the eu, with the support of international organisations, extends the practice of nuclear plant stress testing around the world, and especially to its external borders.
nuclear safety is a matter for all states, whether they have nuclear power plants or not. of course, it is possible to be angry about what happened in the past, but today it is clear that we must move forward. it is very good, mr commissioner, that you have indeed responded promptly to the fukushima accident and initiated the issue of inspections of nuclear power stations, and it is also good that the member states have agreed to carry them out. however, there is no system at all for the construction of new nuclear power plants near the european union's border, as has been mentioned several times in connection with the construction of nuclear power plants in kaliningrad and belarus. i therefore believe that we must initiate and adopt the appropriate legislation as soon as possible to ensure that the question of the construction and operation of nuclear power stations is systematic, binding and based on clear principles throughout europe. in this way, we would have objective information about the potential threat and could hope to avoid it.
in writing. there is no doubt that the consequences of a nuclear power plant disaster are long-term, both for the environment and for people, and do not stop at national borders. three months have passed since the tragedy in japan, and the solution to all the problems is still not clear. the european commission responded swiftly and appropriately to the disaster: it proposed stress tests for all nuclear power plants, it sought tougher nuclear safety standards, and regular audits would strengthen nuclear safety and public confidence in nuclear energy. however, we are already seeing that stress tests will be difficult to implement even within the eu, despite the general recognition of the importance and necessity of such tests. we cannot think only of european nuclear security. if the kaliningrad and astravyansk nuclear power projects currently on the eu's borders are carried out without the highest international safety standards, not only will the neighbouring baltic states be threatened, but also the whole of europe, not so far away. the european commission has repeatedly stated that some of the neighbouring countries - ukraine, russia, sweden, turkey - are ready to join the european testing, but it is still unclear what concrete steps the commission intends to take to make the cooperation happen and what the situation will be with belarus.
lukashenka's policies have pushed him and the country into deep self-isolation in its relations with the west. this was quickly seized by russia, which in exchange for the loan is seeking to take over strategic and most profitable belarusian companies. the introduction of a common currency (the russian ruble) is already being discussed. the forthcoming meeting with russia should be used to draw attention to the situation in belarus. i am not talking about negotiating with russia over belarus, because that would only be acknowledging that russia has some special rights over this country. but we must warn at the highest level that it is unacceptable to increase influence in a neighboring country by taking advantage of the situation and negotiating with an authoritarian regime that does not represent the people. only the belarusian people themselves can decide on the country's integration processes and only in conditions of democratic freedom of decision-making.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the following resolution on sudan and south sudan: situation after the 2011 referendum. on 9-15 january 2011, a referendum was held in south sudan in which a large majority of citizens voted in favour of the establishment of an independent state of south sudan, which is expected to be declared on 9 july 2011, the date coinciding with the last day of the universal peace agreement (upa). it will be a very important day for south sudan, as the establishment of a new state will bring many difficult challenges. i support the call in the resolution for the south sudanese authorities to promote the development of south sudan as a modern, pluralistic, democratic state based on the rule of law, respecting human rights, in particular those of women and children, and giving priority to the right of citizens to elect their government through regular and free elections. although south sudan has natural resources such as oil, copper and iron, as well as forests and fertile land, and the vast majority of the population lives in poverty, the country has one of the highest infant mortality rates and one of the lowest educational rates in the world, i call on the incoming government of south sudan to take the necessary measures immediately to help ensure that the people of south sudan have at least a minimum standard of living, social guarantees and, above all, security.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. a referendum was held in south sudan from 9 to 15 january 2011, in which a large majority voted to establish an independent state of south sudan. south sudan is expected to formally declare its independence on 9 july 2011. the european parliament fully recognises the referendum as the result of the democratic will of the people of south sudan. i support the european parliament's call for the government of south sudan to take into account the interests of the population and adopt a foreign investment policy that will make foreign investment in natural resources conducive to the development of the country's economy in order to combat poverty. the european union's development assistance shall be used for basic services, education, health, agriculture, food security and institutional capacity building to ensure that south sudan develops as a modern, pluralistic and democratic state based on the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it calls on the south sudanese authorities to promote the development of south sudan as a modern, pluralistic, democratic state based on the rule of law, respecting human rights, in particular those of women and children, giving priority to the right of citizens to elect their government through regular and free elections, and enshrining in the constitution and the law the protection of freedom of movement, freedom of association and freedom of political expression.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as it is essential to ensure that military conflicts and disagreements between the two sides are controlled, that the escalation of unrest is prevented and that a comprehensive peace agreement is reached and properly implemented. both north and south sudan must be governed on the basis of democratic principles, the rule of law, and respect for human, social and economic rights. lasting peace and security must prevail in the region. in this context, the protection and security of the sudanese people must remain a priority. in particular, the status of the abyei region must be resolved as a matter of urgency, in accordance with the provisions of the universal peace agreement. it is essential that the eu provides the necessary development assistance wherever possible. we must make every effort to ensure that the funds allocated to this support are used for the purpose, for the essential and necessary services. in addition, the government of south sudan should implement as soon as possible a foreign investment policy that would attract foreign investment in natural resources and thus contribute to poverty reduction policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on sudan and south sudan because the referendum in south sudan, in which the majority of the population voted in favour of the establishment of an independent south sudanese state, is a demonstration of the democratic will of the citizens. after seven years of war, south sudan has the highest poverty rate in the world and the lowest education rate. the eu's decision to provide eur 200 million in aid to south sudan to help the most vulnerable populations is therefore welcome. these funds should be allocated to education, health, agriculture and institutional capacity building. i support the extension of the un mission in sudan and the deployment of additional peacekeeping forces, as it is now of the utmost importance to ensure the peaceful development of sudan and south sudan. the creation of a new state is a complex process that requires a very rapid solution to the problems of defining common borders, granting citizenship to residents of the southern and northern regions, sharing revenues from oil, and other issues. the parties to the universal peace agreement should participate constructively in the political dialogue. the call for a constitutional review in south sudan is important to ensure that all political parties act as one in order to represent all the people of the new country and to help build strong democratic political institutions.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. closer eu-russia cooperation and good neighbourly relations are of particular importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe and beyond. the eu and russia are economically and politically interdependent and the conclusion of the eu-russian federation partnership agreement is therefore crucial to further develop and promote cooperation between the two partners. in its relations with the russian federation, the eu must speak with one voice and show solidarity, in particular on the security of energy supply. russia's energy policy towards the eu member states and the countries of the common neighbourhood will demonstrate russia's genuine commitment to modernisation and democratisation. i support the european parliament's demand that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political tool, but that the principles of interdependence and transparency, and equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, should be the basis for cooperation on energy security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because russia, as a permanent member of the un security council, shares with the eu the responsibility for maintaining global stability and because closer eu-russia cooperation and good neighbourly relations are of particular importance for ensuring stability, security and prosperity in europe and beyond. the conclusion of the eu-russian federation strategic partnership agreement remains crucial for the further development and promotion of cooperation between the two partners. however, concerns remain about russia's respect for and protection of fundamental and human rights, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, political control of the media, repressive measures against journalists and opposition representatives, and the integrity of elections. the importance of security of energy supply is emphasised and russia's energy policy towards the member states and the countries of the common neighbourhood will demonstrate russia's genuine commitment to the path of modernisation and democratisation. the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political tool. the principles of interdependence and transparency, as well as equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, should form the basis of such cooperation.
in writing. − russia and the eu are linked both economically and politically. together, they are responsible for maintaining global stability. this requires the continuous development of cooperation between russia and the eu and the development of good neighbourly relations. only by such peaceful means will we be able to ensure stability, security and prosperity in europe and beyond. the strategic partnership agreement is one of the key instruments for achieving the objectives set. for the proper implementation of the said agreement, both parties must, without any exception, comply with its terms and fulfil the commitments undertaken, taking into account the protection of human rights, the rule of law and the democratic state. i believe that the summit will remove the obstacles to russia's accession to the wto. russia's accession to the wto on an equal footing is an important step that will create favourable business conditions for businesses in both countries and facilitate and liberalise trade in the global economy. it is important to address the issue of visa liberalisation by gradually introducing a visa-free regime between the eu and russia. energy supply and nuclear security are another basis for strong and stable cooperation. the supply of natural resources cannot be used as a political tool. in addition, to prevent a nuclear catastrophe, chernobyl-type reactors must be shut down as soon as possible and mutual agreement must be reached to meet the highest safety standards.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european parliament has received more than four hundred petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory publishers, which have a particularly significant financial impact on thousands of eu businesses, mostly small ones. this practice is usually accompanied by tempting offers to businesses, professionals and non-profit organisations to be included in business directories free of charge, although the subscribers only subsequently learn that they are contractually obliged to pay the corresponding fee. since business directory publishers are often established in one eu member state and have their business in other eu member states, it is difficult for them to seek protection or compensation from national authorities. while the european commission cannot require individuals or companies to comply with the provisions of the directive on misleading and comparative advertising, it is its duty as guardian of contracts to ensure that the directive is properly implemented in the member states. i agree with the call for the commission to take action to monitor the transposition of the provisions of the directive into national law and their proper implementation by the member states and to take corrective action, if necessary, to prevent misleading behaviour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory publishers which affect thousands of businesses in the european union, mostly small businesses, with a particularly significant financial impact, and parliament continues to receive petitions and complaints about business directory publishers. this misleading practice usually consists of tempting offers to businesses, as well as to professionals and non-profit organisations, to be included in the business directory free of charge, since the subscribers subsequently find out that they have signed a contract for which a fee is payable. publishers of business directories are often established in one member state and have their objects in another, which makes it difficult for the latter to seek protection and/or compensation from the national authorities. the commission is invited to accelerate the work on the review and improvement of directive 2006/114/ec and other relevant legislation with a view to bringing an immediate end to misleading practices by business directory publishers, in particular by establishing a blacklist of misleading practices in business directories.
in writing. − i support this resolution because we must promote honest business practices and prevent the spread of misleading business practices. effective legal aid measures should be provided for that purpose. the commission has also found that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are in line with the market economy operator principle. the companies are given false business offers and are fraudulently forced to enter into unwanted contracts for advertising in business directories. in this case, the national authorities cannot provide adequate protection or compensation, as often the publishers of business directories and the affected business entities are established in different countries. this provides a clear opportunity for business directory publishers to exploit the situation. in order to put an end to such unfair practices as quickly as possible, the commission should establish a blacklist of misleading practices in business directories and adopt the relevant legislation, paying particular attention to the implementation of the provisions of the directive on misleading and comparative advertising. i believe that the national authorities of the member states must be given the appropriate conditions for cooperation to enable them to apply administrative or legal measures at cross-border level. only if these measures are implemented will the internal market of the european union be able to function properly, consumers be protected and businesses be able to engage in fair business practices.
in writing. − i voted for this motion for a resolution because it has clearly pointed out the current situation of misleading business practices, which are already against eu law, and that the international dimension of the fraud makes it difficult for the victims to pursue and fight against the fraudsters. i believe that vulnerable small businesses and professionals need to be protected from the misleading business directories, and thus the ep and the eu as a whole must show that european law is there for everyone to follow and respect. therefore, i fully support this resolution that calls on the commission to proactively verify member states’ transposition, implementation and national enforcement of directive 2006/114/ec and take corrective action where needed. the commission should also speed up revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation to end the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the continued existence of the death penalty in the us and the situation in guantánamo bay undermines the united states’ legitimacy as our partner in advancing human rights. i appreciate president obama’s earlier calls to close guantánamo very much, but we have yet to see decisive action by the us government to respond to those calls or take action to reform their system for dealing with detainees, especially in the al-nashiri case. it is impossible to explain to people in europe or in the world why the death penalty abolished in ukraine, russia, azerbaijan and everywhere else in europe except belarus, still exists in the usa. i believe it will be not too long before we get good news from america on this score.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ukraine is a democracy, therefore we signal our concern to a partner, an ally, and a friend. as we all know, nobody is perfect in this world, but it is in accordance with europe’s political standards and norms, and also in accordance with the logic and values of democracy, that we expect the ukrainian authorities not to abuse their power by encouraging and holding politically motivated trials, and instead to give those who are suspects a fair trial, rather than political retribution. yulia tymoshenko and other members of the former government of ukraine, who had long been the rivals of president yanukovych, should not be regarded as collectively, or by association, guilty and responsible for what is perceived as a liability in political practice. first and foremost, they are all citizens of a democratic state. by no means are we offering a defence speech here. instead we are merely reminding our friends how democracy works.
today we are discussing one of the most important issues in european union policy, which is about ensuring the well-being of our citizens and the competitiveness and growth of the union as a whole. the past cohesion policy has been a driving force in ensuring greater integration and growth in the poorer regions of the european union and in significantly reducing economic and social disparities. today we have the europe 2020 strategy, which envisages an even greater role for structural cohesion policy in order to overcome the crisis and contribute to the well-being of our citizens. we will, of course, have to overcome many challenges related to globalisation, demographic change and conservation of resources. but to do so, we will have to tap the potential of all the regions of the european union without exception. i believe that the regional policy of the future should be linked to the main european objectives, i.e. innovation, research, environmental and energy challenges, and help to create european added value. but only with maximum transparency, efficiency and highly efficient control.
in writing. in preparation for the new funding period after 2013, we need to make concrete proposals for the financial perspective of the european union (2014-2020) on a common strategic programme to ensure the implementation of the eu's cohesion policy objectives and the effectiveness of the structural funds. in this difficult period, we have a good opportunity to use the time available for the forthcoming negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework to achieve more effective management and implementation of the eu's structural funds and programmes in order to overcome the effects of the financial and economic crisis. the european commission should increase its technical assistance to member states' and regional and local authorities and organise more training for them, in order to increase their capacity and knowledge of the rules applicable to the handling of implementation problems. in addition, member states should themselves prioritise investments in institutional capacity, simplify administrative provisions in order to reduce administrative burdens. i support the european parliament's call for the commission to develop a european multi-level governance guide and encourage member states to follow it, taking into account specific local and regional objectives, and to extend the application of cohesion policy governance tools (i.e. programming, financing and implementation based on national, regional and local partnerships) and to apply them to funds that will be included in the planned overall strategic programme, in order to ensure greater efficiency in public spending.
i am pleased that today we are talking about simplifying and making cohesion policy more effective. i have repeatedly said that the development and improvement of the quality of life of the member states supported by the european union would be more effective if the planning method were more effective and if the horizontal objectives were pursued using funds from different funds. however, the revision of the rules governing the funds themselves is equally important. often, a problem is not solved because of a lack of funds. although another programme pursuing similar objectives, financed by another fund, is not fully implemented. unfortunately, in this case, redistribution of funds between funds is not possible due to different rules. in this context, while supporting the need to introduce a coordinating mechanism with even greater impact, as set out in the resolution, i also call for the rules for the reallocation of funds to be amended to make them as flexible as possible.
the management of spent fuel and nuclear waste is of paramount importance for the safety of the environment and of both man and society. i therefore urge the council to take account of the opinion of the european parliament, which is playing an increasingly important role in environmental matters, when adopting the directive. it is regrettable, however, that in playing political games we sometimes want to include in documents various provisions which can have opposite results. some member states, when they came into being, brought with them to the european union the burden of nuclear power plants that were built against their will. one of the conditions for lithuania's accession to the eu was the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant. the european union, for its part, has contractually committed itself to financing this closure. this eu commitment arises in particular from the fact that it is impossible for a state such as lithuania to finance all the work on the closure of the power plant alone. closure work includes the disposal of spent fuel and nuclear waste. therefore, calls to place this burden on the shoulders of the member states would have the opposite effect. without adequate funding, lithuania would not be able to provide security effectively on its own. on the contrary, the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant must remain a concern for lithuania and the european union as a whole in the coming financial perspective.
the common agricultural policy is one of the largest and most sensitive policy areas of the european union and is of concern to all countries. in particular, agriculture is an area with a large and direct impact on environmental protection. it is therefore important that both in the definition of direct support models and in supporting rural development, priority should be given to sustainable agriculture and to various aspects of animal welfare, including organic farming. the rural development aspect is also relevant for the new eu member states. unfortunately, rural areas experience the largest influx of migrant labour. it is therefore essential to make them as attractive as possible to live and work in, and to attract young people to them. this requires the use of rural development instruments, support for the development of promising and dynamic rural communities and further development of the implementation of the leader method. equally important is the involvement and engagement of young farmers and young rural people in agricultural production and rural development processes in order to address land abandonment, rural depopulation, rural ageing and other problems.
in writing. − i have agreed to this communication as belgium has requested assistance in respect of the redundancies of 2 834 employees (all of them receiving individual aid) in the main company of general motors in belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector in the nuts ii region of antwerp, belgium. belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 'general motors belgium' and four of its suppliers, on 20 december 2010 and supplemented it by additional information up to 24 january 2011. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of eur 9 593 931.
in writing. − the funds of the globalisation adjustment fund must be used in a targeted and targeted manner. financial assistance must be granted as soon as possible, in particular in cases where thousands of workers are made redundant in one undertaking. delays in granting financial assistance can have particularly painful and serious consequences, which is why it is essential to mobilise the fund and to respond promptly to a request from a member state. it should be noted that the moral and material damage suffered by the dismissed persons and their families is incalculable. in particular, they face significant difficulties in returning to the labour market. they have no opportunity to learn or to retrain. it is therefore essential to ensure that these persons receive financial support in a timely manner in order to enable them to integrate properly into the labour market. in view of the importance of this financial contribution, i support the proposal to provide financial assistance from the egf to belgium for the mass redundancies in the company general motors belgium. i also urge other member states where workers are being made redundant as a result of the financial crisis to apply for financial support immediately to mitigate the negative effects, address employment problems and promote job preservation and job creation.
in writing. − the proposal is based on the understanding that in specific cases where a particularly important legislative dossier is not clearly assigned to the competence of a specific committee and can be allocated to several committees, the conflict of competence should be resolved in accordance with the principles of equality and cooperation. the committees concerned shall hold joint meetings in order to exchange arguments in advance and to clarify the majority and minority votes to be obtained. the members of the committees concerned shall then vote jointly on the amendments to the legislative proposal submitted. a better-aligned joint report is therefore presented in plenary. that's why i agreed to this proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it proposed to approve the renewal of the protocol, which expired on 27 january 2011. the ex-post evaluation of this agreement also shows that it is important in helping to ensure the presence of eu vessels in the region, creating job opportunities there. the application of the protocol has proven to be effective in providing opportunities for seychelles to develop responsible fishing. the agreement proved to be effective because of the good performance of the seiners, as it ensured that the price of the fishing opportunities negotiated remained economically viable. the fishing for seiners does not threaten the biological sustainability of the resources used. the agreement contributes significantly to the stabilisation of the european canned tuna market. the development of the seychelles' fisheries sector is highly dependent on this agreement. the implementation of financial support from the sector has increased seychelles' capacity for resource management and control of fishing areas. the new protocol also meets the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement to strengthen cooperation and foster partnership between the two countries, thereby developing a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of fisheries resources in the seychelles' fishing zone. for all these reasons, i consider that this proposed new protocol to the eu-seychelles fisheries partnership agreement is of substantial benefit to both parties.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles is mutually beneficial. in particular, eu vessels may enter seychelles' waters and fish. these vessels create many new jobs for the seafarers of the seychelles. the agreement strengthens cooperation between the parties and promotes partnerships and scientific cooperation in the fields of responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries. in addition, the seychelles' fishing sector is facilitated through responsible fishing, effective action against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and full use of its vessel control system. it should be noted that the provisions of the renewed agreement will have a positive impact on the european canned tuna market and will undoubtedly contribute to its stabilisation, promote the observance of the safeguard measures in the high seas and enable the prevention of the activities of illegal fishing vessels. it is welcome that a compromise has been reached between the two parties and that a suspension clause has been included in the protocol on the renewal of the agreement for violations of human rights, non-compliance with the principles of the wto. it is noted that piracy continues to pose a particular threat to the safety of shipping in the indian ocean. both parties must therefore take the necessary measures and actions to prevent the escalation of this illegal activity.
in writing. − the ex-ante assessment found that in order to meet the needs of european navies, the the fisheries agreement with são tomé and príncipe could contribute to supporting the viability of the eu tuna fishing sector in the atlantic ocean by providing a solid medium-term basis for eu vessels and their dependent sectors to continue fishing in the agreed fishing zones in the gulf of guinea. the ex-post evaluation shows that substantial progress has been made in fisheries control and monitoring measures (first steps towards the introduction of a satellite vessel control system, new legal framework to help develop a vessel management database), and são tomé and príncipe is more actively involved and visible in the activities of regional or subregional organisations such as the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icact) and the corep (committee for the regional fisheries of the gulf of guinea). the evaluation also concludes that more than 50% of the union financial contribution has been used for the management budget of the fisheries sector of são tomé and príncipe, which is in line with the commitments made by the national authorities under the previous protocol. i have agreed to this document because the assessments made show that this proposal is in the best interests of both parties.
in writing. − the new protocol is of clear benefit to both parties in terms of strengthening partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector to ensure responsible and sustainable fishing. in particular, fishing opportunities will be increased. eu vessels will continue to be able to fish in the fishing zones of the gulf of guinea. this will have a positive impact on the viability and competitiveness of the eu tuna fishing sector in the atlantic. it is also essential to ensure that fishing activities meet the same sustainability criteria as those applied to fisheries in eu waters. it should be noted that the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is one of the least developed and most indebted countries. under the terms of this agreement, increased financial support will be provided for the country's fisheries policy, which will create favourable conditions for the development of this sector. given the country's extremely difficult situation, this agreement must at least minimally contribute to the economic well-being of the country, promote job creation, environmental and social sustainability, and conservation and restoration of fisheries resources.
in writing. − i have agreed to this document as it proposes to include in this proposal amendments to the community customs code and its implementing provisions relating to customs security measures for goods exported to or imported from non-eu countries. the amendments include, in particular, a provision requiring economic operators to provide certain data before the entry and exit of goods.
in writing. − the eu-andorra relations need to continue to develop in a consistent and effective manner in a number of directions. this requires the creation of appropriate conditions. in particular, in order to facilitate trade between the eu and andorra, it is important to properly implement customs security measures relating to the declaration of goods before they are brought into or out of the customs territory, authorised economic operators, customs security controls and security risk management. in addition, the development of the internal market outside the eu needs to be encouraged on the basis of common regulatory standards. this would be mutually beneficial for citizens and businesses of both countries. it is noted that the special eu-andorra regime established by the protocol will contribute positively to the smooth development of trade between the two countries, while maintaining a high level of security standards. in order to ensure the proper implementation of customs security measures, i support the proposal to include in the protocol a provision requiring economic operators to provide certain data before goods are brought in and taken out. i consider it appropriate to abolish the requirement to declare goods before they are imported, provided that the eu and andorra ensure an adequate level of security in their customs territory in accordance with the requirements of community legislation.
in writing. − promoting mutually-secure borders with neighbouring countries to the eu is necessary to maintain the sovereignty of our union, to develop mutual cooperation. expedient control of the eu border with andorra, a principality in between two large eu countries, france and spain, will ensure a more profitable and amiable relationship in the future. i voted for this protocol because it will encourage greater information exchanges with andorra on security-related risk management and controls, as well as the standardisation of eu customs security measures, and will encourage the safe movement of goods between andorra and other eu countries. increasing bilateral trade between andorra and the eu in a more secure, standardised environment will benefit europe as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the bilateral eu-canada civil aviation security agreement that is being negotiated will benefit the people of europe by facilitating trade relations between the two countries. the aim of this agreement is to reduce the number of double-checks, tests and inspections and to achieve mutual confidence in the eu and canada's aviation product certification systems. by harmonising the requirements and regulatory processes of both countries, the importing authority will be able to issue the certificate for the aviation product, part or appliance itself and will not have to repeat all the checks carried out by the exporting authority. the shorter, simpler and therefore cheaper product approval procedures will save both companies millions of euros per year, benefit airlines and make the canadian and european aviation markets even safer.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the main objectives set out in the negotiating directives were to reduce the number of double assessments, tests and controls (unless there are significant regulatory differences) and to achieve that both the eu and canada can rely on each other's certification systems. this could be achieved by gradually harmonising the two systems of requirements and regulatory processes, by continuing to consult both parties and by ensuring that the regulatory bodies involved in the implementation of the agreement remain adequately prepared and capable, and by establishing a joint committee to propose solutions to problems arising from the implementation of the agreement. to maintain trust in each other's systems, the agreement provides for joint inspections, investigations, exchange of safety data (aircraft inspection and accident information), increased regulatory cooperation at the technical level and consultation to resolve problems before they become 'disputes'. it is envisaged to establish a joint committee and sub-committees on issues such as airworthiness and maintenance. it also provides for strict safeguards which would ultimately allow either party to suspend acceptance of the conclusion of the other competent authority or to terminate the agreement in whole or in part. however, the whole system of consultations, committees and subcommittees is designed to ensure that all objections are properly resolved and not prejudged.
in writing. − the benefits of the ec-canada agreement on civil aviation safety are clear to both parties. it is noted that the eu and canada are home to the most important aviation technology producers. the trade and export volume of both countries in this area is huge. it is essential to ensure that certification schemes meet the requirements of both countries for effective cooperation in the field of aviation security. it is encouraging that an agreement was reached during the negotiations on the reduction of double assessments, tests and controls. i consider it appropriate to allow the importing authority to issue its own certificate for the aviation product, thus avoiding the duplication of the checks carried out by the exporting authority. the mutual recognition of maintenance and airworthiness and maintenance licensing only demonstrates the confidence of both parties in each other's systems. such an agreement will facilitate better cooperation between the regulatory authorities of both countries in all areas of certification, inspection and enforcement, consultation. the joint inspections, investigations and exchange of safety data will ensure the highest level of safety for passenger and cargo flights. it should be noted that the entry into force of this agreement will make product approval and licensing procedures more flexible, shorter and cheaper. all these conditions are lower than the costs of the companies in this sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy remains relevant, since it makes a major contribution to improving the social and economic environment. cohesion policy also aims to reduce disparities in the development of europe's regions, to help achieve modern and sustainable growth, and to demonstrate european solidarity. it has proven to be of crucial importance for the progress of european integration and for the interaction of european policies. it is clear that europe's regions have a number of economic, social and environmental differences. some of the differences arose from the last two developments, while others were exacerbated by the direct consequences of the global financial and economic crisis. member states have welcomed the new requirements and are making progress towards the objectives of cohesion policy, as evidenced by the facts and figures presented in the national reports, but there are still natural differences between countries and regions. taking into account that the european social fund is the main instrument for combating poverty, social exclusion and unemployment, gender inequality, social discrimination (for people with disabilities, migrants, the elderly, etc.) by ensuring people's access to employment, parliament calls on the commission to increase the potential and financial independence of the fund. in addition, project management should be simplified, procedures and controls harmonised and improved, and the monitoring of ongoing projects more effective.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it is urgent to take corrective action to improve the underperformance of projects in certain priority areas. in areas where specific delays in project selection have been identified, a thorough examination of implementation problems is recommended and, in this context, member states are encouraged to make greater efforts to improve project selection in areas where delays are identified and to accelerate the implementation of all selected projects in order to avoid the risk of not reaching the agreed objectives. it is important to note that smes play an important innovative role in the economy and it is therefore necessary to develop this sector, inter alia, through the implementation of the small business act, to facilitate smes' access to financial and operating capital and to encourage smes to participate in innovative projects and to help them become competitive and better exploit their potential for increased employment. i believe that effective project selection and implementation in some areas is hampered by the lack of appropriate prerequisites, such as simpler application procedures at national level, clear national priorities for certain actions, timely transposition of eu law and institutional and administrative capacity building, and the existence of huge national bureaucracies. member states and regions are therefore encouraged to facilitate policy implementation by addressing these problems and in particular by adapting the legal framework on state aid, public procurement and environmental rules and by pursuing institutional reforms.
in writing. − cohesion policy a guarantee of improving our social and economic environment, reducing regional disparities in development, and promoting modern and sustainable growth. it is an effective and efficient tool to address the social and economic problems caused by the financial crisis. in order to reduce the disparities between the less developed and the highly developed regions of the eu, member states should be encouraged to increase their absorption of the structural and cohesion funds. member states must be more actively involved in the implementation of cohesion policy programmes. in order to achieve these objectives, it is important to ensure that there is no delay in the selection of projects and their proper implementation. this requires an effective control and monitoring mechanism and a reduced bureaucratic and administrative burden. it should be noted that transport, which is a crucial factor in achieving territorial, economic and social cohesion, needs to be given special attention and funding. it is regrettable that the level of investment in the railway sector is not increasing compared to the road transport sector. moreover, the delay in investments in the railway sector is causing enormous damage to the implementation of the ten-t network as a whole. it should be noted that the structural funds are a very important economic incentive for small businesses. the use of these funds is essential to create favourable conditions for smes, by improving access to finance, by encouraging participation in a wide range of innovative projects and by encouraging cooperation at local and regional level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the main objective of the improved european urban agenda should be to help develop and upgrade the infrastructure and services of european cities. future measures must be closely linked to the overall priorities of the european union in order to justify support from the eu budget. cities are the centres of economic activity, innovation and employment in europe, but they are also the source of many problems. complex problems such as the trend towards suburbanization, the concentration of poverty and unemployment in the suburbs or the increasing congestion of transport need to be addressed through complex transport, housing, training and employment programmes tailored to local needs. these problems should be addressed in the context of european regional and cohesion policy. in addition, the european commission should seek to harmonise as far as possible the rules applicable to individual european union funds and programmes implementing urban and local development projects, in order to minimise bureaucratic burdens and possible implementation errors. the commission should prepare a study comparing the latest integrated strategic planning experience of individual member states and, on the basis of its findings, develop specific guidelines for integrated urban planning in the european union, which promote effective and legally regulated partnerships, including cross-border urban partnerships.
in writing. − i have supported this document as it recommends that the urban dimension of cohesion policy focuses on three objectives: firstly, to help urban areas develop their core physical infrastructure, which is of particular importance for growth, in order to take full advantage of their potential contribution to european economic growth, economic diversification and energy and environmental sustainability, in particular to maintain and improve air quality in urban centres without damaging rivers. secondly, to help urban areas modernise their economic, social and environmental dimensions through smart investment in infrastructure and services, based on technological progress and closely linked to the specific needs of the regions; thirdly, to restore urban areas through the reuse of industrial sites and contaminated land, and to take account of the need to ensure urban-rural links in order to promote inclusive development in line with the europe 2020 strategy. urban areas are not isolated regional elements and their development must be closely linked to the surrounding functional, suburban or rural areas. i agree that the european commission should seek to harmonise as much as possible the rules applicable to individual eu funds and the programmes under which urban and local development projects are eligible for co-financing, in order to minimise bureaucratic burdens and possible implementation errors.
in writing. − cities are a catalyst for economic growth, entrepreneurship and the creation of new, sustainable jobs. in implementing the urban agenda, we need to focus more on supporting the development and qualitative renewal of european urban infrastructure and services. in order to implement the principle of smart urban development, cities must be able to develop their infrastructure in an appropriate and efficient manner, using advanced technologies, in particular ict. the implementation of intelligent transport systems would help to address the problems of congestion, energy efficiency, public sector safety. taking into account the specific needs of the regions, it is necessary to encourage investment in technological progress. it is necessary to promote social innovation in urban areas, especially in neighbourhoods, by using the opportunities offered by cohesion policy. it is essential to restore urban areas through the use of industrial sites and contaminated land, promoting the integrated development of urban and rural areas. this requires the implementation of multi-level governance, regional planning and the partnership principle. it is important to note that the commission, building on the good practice of strategic planning in the member states, has to develop specific guidelines for integrated urban development in the eu and to establish an obligation to implement integrated urban planning. in addition, local government initiatives must actively pursue public-private partnerships and implement innovative strategies for urban infrastructure development.
in writing. − the rapporteur rightly notes that member states need to make greater efforts to make sustainable urban development a strategic priority. although almost 70% of lithuania's population lives in cities and their suburbs, my country lacks a clear, integrated and sustainable approach. this is due to reduced competition. it is vital to balance eu priorities with local needs. the eu urban agenda must not become a one-way process it is essential that citizens have a say. the communication addresses several urban challenges such as urban regeneration, adequate housing and clean urban transport. unfortunately, the list of social problems in lithuania's urban areas is much longer. according to official lithuanian government statistics, about 18% of lithuanian urban dwellers live below the poverty line. lithuania has one of the highest rates of urban suicide in the world. eu statistics show that more than 25% of young lithuanians are forced to take up low-paid jobs, short-term contracts without adequate social security guarantees. this has a significant impact on the independence of young people living in cities, and it poses major demographic challenges, as family planning becomes a problem in urban areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to strengthen territorial cooperation, which aims to encourage territories and regions to work together to tackle common challenges, to remove physical, cultural, administrative and regulatory barriers to this cooperation and to mitigate the impact of borders. cross-border cooperation programmes are also important for achieving efficiency and results in the implementation of strategies relating to poverty reduction and the integration of the most vulnerable groups into european society as a whole. in addition, the historical legacy of close cultural and linguistic links between border regions in different member states should be exploited to promote cross-border cooperation. better coordination between the management authorities and existing cross-border institutions, such as the euroregions, should also be pursued in the implementation of cross-border programmes, in order to ensure the quality, transparency and proximity of projects to citizens.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because territorial cooperation is included in the 2007-13 financial framework as one of the three pillars of the european union's cohesion policy, replacing the community initiative interreg. subsequently, territorial cohesion, like economic and social cohesion, was included in article 174 of the treaty as one of the three components of cohesion policy. territorial cohesion is now firmly established as one of the european union's top priorities. territorial cooperation should aim to remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers between territories and regions and to mitigate the impact of borders between territories and regions, so that they can jointly address common territorial (services, infrastructure, urbanisation and spatial planning), common (globalisation, climate change), economic or social challenges. territorial cooperation and its role, which is crucial in strengthening the internal market and promoting greater eu integration in several sectoral policy areas, is beneficial for the european union, and i support the view that territorial cooperation should continue to be one of the pillars of cohesion policy.
in writing. − funding for territorial cooperation should be increased in line with its impact on cohesion policy. however, the budget increase for this programming period must clearly indicate the budget lines for the general cohesion policy for which funding will be reduced, without prejudice to the achievement of the objectives pursued by the cohesion policy. territorial cooperation removes administrative and regulatory barriers between territories and regions and helps to address issues related to territorial, economic and social cohesion. in addition, cooperation between border regions must remain a priority compared to cooperation in other areas. in view of this, the funding for its implementation should be increased. i think that the geographical limit of 150 km should be more flexible for coastal and maritime regions. the development and implementation of large-scale strategies must take account of the different regional cooperation programmes. in addition, the commission should assess the results of the first macro-regional strategies implemented. territorial cooperation is closely linked to europe's external borders, which requires better interaction between the erdf and other cooperation instruments, facilitating financing opportunities and implementing the new neighbourhood policy. it should be noted that the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes is currently complicated by the fact that many different institutions are involved in their implementation. it is also necessary to simplify the rules on auditing and control.
in writing. − improved cooperation between eu member states on bilateral, regional and interregional levels is not only a crucial part of the european union’s mandate but also increasingly necessary in maintaining eu solidarity as we tackle a growing number of issues. i supported this resolution because it acknowledges that we need to simplify the implementation elements of these levels of cooperation and involve private actors especially with regard to cooperation on economic development. eu member states will continue to greatly benefit from enhanced mediums for cooperation with other member states. together with the rapporteur i call on the ec to conduct an in-depth study of the results of the first macroregional strategies implemented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the more rational use of expenditure requires more effective and efficient policies at the european union, national, regional and local levels. in addition, in the interinstitutional negotiations on the new financial perspective of the european union (2014-2020), the european parliament should make concrete proposals for a common strategic programme to ensure the implementation of the eu's cohesion policy objectives and the effectiveness of the structural funds. it should be noted that the economic and financial crisis has further increased the urgency of the application of the measures to the sectors supported by the european social fund, with a particular focus on employment, vocational training, social inclusion and poverty reduction. i would also like to emphasise that the european social fund, as a support instrument for lifelong learning, skills acquisition and career change, should be seen as a crucial (but still under-utilized) resource for promoting inclusive and effective growth and knowledge-based competitiveness in europe. it is necessary to aim at a more rational use of cohesion policy expenditure by reducing the fragmentation of funding instruments and promoting a greater complementarity between different funding instruments. in addition, the commission's proposal to achieve a better allocation of european union and national resources by priority and a better concentration by theme in order to ensure a more efficient coordination of eu funds should be taken into account.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it calls for a proposal for a common strategic programme in time for the next funding period after 2013 to ensure a common approach and take advantage of the synergies between all actions contributing to the further objectives of cohesion policy as defined in the treaties and financed by the erdf, the cohesion fund, the esf, the eafrd and the edf. i am of the opinion that cohesion policy is one of the pillars of the eu's economic policy, which favours long-term strategic investment and social inclusion. cohesion policy also provides support for less developed regions and disadvantaged groups, which contributes to the balanced and sustainable development of the european union. the essence of european added value is that everyone can benefit from the eu's economic success, which is why cohesion policy must remain independent and be given more and adequate funding.
in writing. − we must make every effort to facilitate access to erdf and other structural funds for all member states. in order to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy, the interaction between these funds needs to be clarified, problems of coordination between them solved and the rules for managing the funds simplified. in this context, it is essential to follow a common approach and develop a common strategic programme beyond 2013. it is also necessary to reduce the fragmentation of funding instruments, ensuring a more rational use of cohesion policy expenditure. it should be noted that cohesion policy ensures the sustainable and balanced development of the european union, which means that it must remain independent and that it must receive increased funding. the esf, which is a major contributor to effective growth and knowledge-based competitiveness, needs to be given greater attention. i think cohesion policy should be more focused on results than on the correctness of costs and procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment because i believe that, following the financial and economic crisis in europe and worldwide, it is essential to review the issues of european macroeconomic development and fiscal discipline. it is a difficult but also a good time to complete and correct the existing model, taking into account past and present experience, and the european parliament is involved for the first time in these important decision-making processes. the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is a new disciplinary measure for euro area member states that would introduce sanctions for fraud and failure to act on agreed recommendations without an acceptable explanation, but not for failure to achieve the proposed objectives. this disciplinary measure will take into account the entire burden of the fines imposed on the state and will set a ceiling on the total amount of the fines. the fines paid will become the revenue of the central fund of the permanent crisis management mechanism.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because this procedure should create an alert mechanism to detect emerging macroeconomic imbalances at an early stage. it should be based on the use of a benchmark and a transparent scoreboard with reference thresholds and an economic assessment. this assessment should take into account, inter alia, nominal and real convergence within and outside the euro area. in the event of a significant macroeconomic imbalance, including one that threatens the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, an excessive imbalance procedure should be initiated, which could include the provision of recommendations to the member state and the imposition of stricter supervisory and monitoring requirements, and the possibility of enforcement (sanctions) in the event of a repeated failure to take corrective action by member states whose currency is the euro. i think it is a good instrument to avoid macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. − it is essential to establish an effectively functioning and fully-fledged mechanism for the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, which would alert and respond to the threat of macroeconomic imbalances. it is essential that this mechanism is based on an indicative and transparent scoreboard. the commission, together with the council and the ep, is to prepare the abovementioned summary and the macroeconomic and macro-financial indicators for the member states. i believe that both euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries should, in the event of exceptional economic circumstances, be provided with symmetrical aggregates and thresholds for different indicators. in addition, the council should keep the council informed of the measures taken to suspend the excessive imbalance procedure in a member state. i support the proposal to empower the commission to carry out enhanced surveillance visits, during which contacts should be maintained with the ecb, the social partners and other national stakeholders. the risk of imbalances must be assessed on a continuous basis in order to prevent them from escalating, and recommendations must be made to the member states in a timely manner in order to eliminate possible disruptions to the functioning of economic and monetary union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this particular report on macroeconomic imbalances because it addresses the details about the current debt issue in some member states, and more importantly, it offers a progressive method to solve such a serious problem concerning not only short-term but also long-term consequences. i believe that europe needs progressive investment to help with economic growth and job creation, and therefore just cutting budgets could only undermine the entire economic and political system in the long term. as a social democrat who emphasises the fundamental social rights of the people and the long-term well-being of society, i support this proposal for its depth and comprehensiveness in addressing these issues.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because it contains provisions designed to speed up and clarify the excessive deficit procedure. the objective of the excessive deficit procedure is to prevent the occurrence of an excessive general government deficit and, if it does occur, to help bring it to an end as quickly as possible by monitoring compliance with the budgetary discipline criteria for general government deficit and general government debt. the rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, in particular with a significantly greater focus on the level and evolution of debt and overall sustainability. compliance with those rules and enforcement systems should be strengthened. economic governance should be carried out more actively and in a timely manner, involving the european parliament and national parliaments.
in writing. − the excessive deficit procedure needs to be made more rapid and operational in order to prevent excessive government deficits. i believe that the rules on budgetary discipline should be tightened up, with particular attention to the level of debt. in order to achieve the objectives set, the commission should be given a specific role in the areas of evaluation, monitoring and the development of recommendations. the commission and the council should also take into account the pension reforms implemented by the member state concerned in their assessments. i do not support the proposal to reduce the amount of the fine for member states that have not taken or have taken inadequate action or measures to control the deficit. i do not think it is appropriate to reduce the total annual amount of fines either, as the fines collected must be used to implement the stability mechanisms.
in writing. - colleagues, one of the things that the greek crisis can show us is the great need for fiscal responsibility. otherwise, all eu countries, not just greece, face serious problems, as two thirds of the eu countries have an excessive deficit. i am glad that the rapporteur has emphasised this. the communication contains more, but its main proposals are to tackle the excessive deficit and to shape the way forward. the report also touches on another important aspect: we must tackle the budget deficit without undermining growth, especially in the emerging economy. it is important that the system for managing public and private debt supports long-term growth. this would include improving investment conditions and the development of the internal market, while taking into account the specific priorities and needs of the member states. and above all, we need transparency, accountability and independent oversight. this is an integral part of the strengthening of the economy's governance. national budgetary frameworks should include the establishment and strengthening of independent fiscal authorities and ensure the publication of transparent fiscal statistics.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the economic governance package aims to meet the need for greater coordination and closer monitoring of economic policies in the economic and monetary union. it also sets requirements for the budgetary systems of the member states to promote fiscal responsibility by setting minimum requirements for national fiscal systems and ensuring that they comply with the obligations laid down in the treaty. the commission also proposed strengthening enforcement measures for euro area member states to support the preventive and corrective components of the stability and growth pact. i support in principle the proposal put forward to ensure the improvement of national fiscal systems and to encourage member states to take better fiscal decisions in the future. in particular, there is a need to provide proposals for improved reporting of fiscal data statistics in order to avoid a repetition of recent experience in some member states. proposals for independent budgetary services, national fiscal rules and the establishment of mandatory multiannual budgets should also contribute to greater fiscal stability.
in writing. − economic and monetary union must provide for effective and efficient coordination and surveillance of economic policies. to this end, fiscal responsibility of the member states should be promoted. it is necessary to set at least minimum requirements for national systems as soon as possible and to ensure the effectiveness of the excessive deficit procedure. member states must pursue prudent and targeted fiscal policies in upswing periods and build up reserves that may be needed in downturns. i support the proposal that the numerical fiscal rules of the member states with a derogation should specify the information related to the definitions of the target indicators, the scope of the rules, the monitoring and the consequences of non-compliance. i think it is appropriate to provide in the medium-term budgetary systems for procedures to give an opinion on the impact of the proposed measures on the long-term sustainability of public finances. it is also appropriate to provide for limitation of liability clauses to identify cases where the right to temporary derogation is granted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, under the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, adjustment to and compliance with the medium-term budgetary objective should be ensured by imposing an obligation on a member state whose currency is the euro and whose progress in budgetary consolidation is insufficient to pay a temporary interest contribution to it. this obligation should apply in the event that a member state significantly deviates from the medium-term budgetary objective or the corresponding adjustment plan for achieving that objective and fails to correct that deviation, even if its deficit is below the 3% of gdp reference value. the required interest contribution should be reimbursed to the state concerned together with the accrued interest as soon as the council is satisfied that the situation giving rise to the obligation to make that contribution has been remedied. the non-interest-bearing deposits should be repaid when the excessive deficit is corrected and the interest and penalties collected on such deposits should be allocated to the stability mechanisms of the member states whose currency is the euro, which are established to provide financial assistance to ensure the stability of the euro area as a whole.
in writing. − i believe that member states which do not comply with the requirements of the union's fiscal system should be subject to appropriate financial sanctions. the penalties applied under the preventive and corrective arm of the stability and growth pact should be gradually differentiated. the proposed system of penalties will ensure gradualness and a level playing field between member states, as both the interest deposit and the non-interest deposit and the fine will be fixed at a level of 0,2% of gdp. in addition, the commission will be empowered to recommend a reduction in the level of the penalty or its lifting, taking into account exceptional economic circumstances. in order to implement an effective budgetary surveillance system, it is essential that the commission submits a report to the european parliament and the council on the feasibility of the introduction of euro securities. i do not support the proposal that the revenue from unused payment appropriations in the union budget be transferred to the union budget for the following year and be used for programmes implemented in accordance with the union priorities. i believe that the tax system must remain a national matter for each member state and that it is therefore not appropriate to oblige the commission to submit a package of legislative proposals for a comprehensive common european tax system.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the economic and financial crisis has highlighted the need to reconsider the framework for economic and monetary union (emu) in order to strengthen the instruments available and to extend the procedures for coordination and multilateral surveillance. as the commission stresses in its explanatory memorandum, the system needs to be strengthened 'in order to consolidate macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, which are a prerequisite for long-term output and employment growth'. the economic governance package consists of six proposals to improve the coordination and surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union (emu) in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester, a new cycle of surveillance combining the process with the provisions of the stability and growth pact and the broad economic policy guidelines. i think it is crucial to ensure that the strengthening of economic governance goes hand in hand with the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of european governance. in this context, the role of the european parliament throughout the surveillance process should be strengthened. in addition, regular consultation of the social partners and the involvement of national parliaments are necessary conditions for a sound and transparent supervisory system.
in writing. − strengthening economic governance would be accompanied by strengthening the democratic legitimacy of european governance. we must make every effort to achieve macroeconomic stability and public finance sustainability. in order to ensure better coordination of the economic policies and activities of the member states, it is necessary to extend the procedures for coordination and multilateral surveillance. multilateral surveillance is required by the council and the commission to identify possible deviations of the budgetary position from the medium-term budgetary objective or from the adjustment plan envisaged to achieve that objective. the implementation of the convergence programmes and the economic policies of non-participating member states in accordance with the objectives of the convergence programmes shall be monitored on a regular basis. i consider that the five-month period for the member state to correct the deviation from the adjustment plan for the medium-term budgetary objective is sufficient. in addition, the actions taken by the member state to correct the deviation must be strictly monitored.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as enforcement of the regulation on macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area should be supported by the setting of interest-rate deposits in case a member state does not comply with the recommendations and does not take the corrective action recommended by the council, which is replaced by an annual fine if it repeatedly fails to comply with the recommendations to reduce excessive macroeconomic imbalances. these enforcement measures are imposed on member states whose currency is the euro. in order to ensure a level playing field between member states, the interest rate and the penalty should be the same for all member states whose currency is the euro and equal to 0,1% of the gross domestic product (gdp) of the member state concerned in the preceding year. i believe that the commission should be given the possibility to propose a reduction in the amount of the fine or its abolition in exceptional economic circumstances, and that the power to take individual decisions on the imposition of the sanction provided for in this regulation should be conferred on the council.
in writing. − a better economic governance system must be based on a commitment by member states to respect established rules and policies and a stronger system of supervision of national economic policies at european level. a wide-ranging reform of the governance system is needed. in order to ensure that the provisions of the regulation on microeconomic imbalances in the euro area are properly implemented and achieve the objectives pursued, a differentiated system of sanctions should be established. as a result, interest-bearing deposits must be applied to a member state if it does not comply with the recommendations and does not implement the corrective action proposed by the council. when a member state repeatedly fails to comply with the recommendations, the interest deposits will be replaced by an annual penalty. i support the proposal that member states whose currency is the euro should be subject to the same interest deposits and penalties in order to ensure that all member states are treated equally. only a strong and independent commission can properly supervise and direct the new deeper and broader framework for economic policy surveillance. in view of this, the commission should be empowered to propose a reduction in the amount of the fine or its abolition in exceptional economic circumstances. the power to adopt individual decisions to impose a sanction should be conferred on the council.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it has done a great deal to simplify eu consumer protection legislation and to extend the rights of consumers shopping online. in addition to strengthening consumer protection, this proposal for a directive aims to remove unnecessary legal obstacles to businesses wishing to market their goods and services throughout the european union. some of the newly established consumer rights in online shopping are the possibility of beautifying the goods within 14 days of delivery, the right to withdraw from the purchase if it has not been delivered within 30 days of the order, the buyer will have to be informed of the final price of the goods. in contrast, the protection of traders and service providers is provided by consumer obligations such as the payment of the shipping costs for the return of the goods to the seller, while in the case of the provision of services the recipient will have to pay for the part of the service already provided.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the aim of the directive is to achieve a high level of consumer protection and thus to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market by harmonising certain aspects of the laws and regulations of the member states relating to consumer and trader contracts. the most important aspects of the amendment of the directive concern distance contracts and contracts concluded outside commercial premises. the legislation will give consumers more control over their purchases, protect them from unfair practices, increase consumer choice and increase competition between businesses. it may also contribute to the increase of cross-border trade flows and the intensification of long-distance trade. this directive shall not apply to contracts for social services, for healthcare services, for financial services, for rights in immovable property, for the construction of new buildings, or to contracts concluded by means of vending machines or automated trading venues, or concluded with telecommunications operators for the use of public pay telephones, or for the use of a telephone, internet or fax connection for a single use by the consumer. member states may decide not to apply this directive to contracts concluded outside the trading venue where the amount payable by the consumer does not exceed eur 50. this directive does not prevent traders from offering consumers contractual terms that provide for a higher level of consumer protection than that provided for in this directive. it should be noted that the european consumer organisation supports this proposal.
in writing. − we must make every effort to achieve a high level of consumer protection throughout the european union. only by achieving this objective will the internal market be able to function effectively. in particular, it is necessary to harmonise the requirements of the laws of the member states relating to distance contracts and contracts concluded outside the premises of a trading venue. it is therefore necessary to lay down specific information requirements for those types of contracts in order to ensure adequate consumer protection. the implementation of these measures will give consumers greater control over their purchases. moreover, they will be protected from dishonest practices. consumer choice will be increased, business competition will increase, cross-border trade flows and distance trade will increase. it should be noted that member states are allowed to exempt contracts concluded outside the trading venue from the provisions of this directive where the contract value does not exceed eur 50 in order to avoid creating additional legal obstacles.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the new rules set out in the report provide clarity and set acceptable criteria for both consumers and businesses to transact online. i hope they will improve consumer protection and the functioning of the internal market while promoting crossborder trade within the eu. these changes are late the original directive provided for a digital revolution and consumers shopping online today are not well protected. the new rules are good news for lithuania, which has one of the highest internet penetration rates in europe. according to lithuanian media reports (verslo vikėė), the number of consumers shopping online in lithuania has increased by 73% over the past two years. the shopping list is very broad from tickets (32%), clothing, shoes, accessories (also 32%) to electrical appliances (23%). however, the improvement of consumer rights should not be limited to the internet. we need to reduce red tape and promote transparency in all areas of consumer rights. efforts should also be made to improve consumer rights awareness. eu surveys show that 7 out of 10 lithuanians still want to know more about their rights when buying airline tickets online, shopping online or facing additional credit charges.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it relates to emissions from agricultural tractors and only makes quantitative amendments to directive 2000/25/ec without changing the environmental objectives of the directive, the methodology or the period of validity. this is an urgent directive as it relates to a period which has already started on 1 january 2011, which is very important as it is expected to have a positive impact on the industry concerned. directive 2000/25/ec on emissions from agricultural tractors lays down maximum levels of carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) which may be emitted in combination with the exhaust gases of diesel engines of tractors. the directive sets maximum emissions for each type of tractor, taking account of engine power, and aims to ensure a gradual reduction in emissions in stages. it is important to support the adequate economic development of the industry concerned and at the same time to contribute to environmental protection.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution tabled. in order to achieve the environmental objectives related to emissions, i believe that the emissions of tractors should be determined in relation to the power of the tractor engine. this will ensure the effective implementation of the phased emission reduction. the inclusion of a flexibility scheme in the directive is welcome to facilitate the transition from one stage to the next. this scheme will be applied in the light of the uneven development of technology and the negative effects of the economic crisis. the interests of both eu producers and farmers will thus be duly taken into account. producers will not be burdened with additional workloads and will have sufficient time to adapt their production to the requirements of each stage, while farmers will be able to replace older tractors with new ones with less polluting engines. in view of this, i consider it appropriate to increase the current 20% annual turnover percentage to 50%. such regulation will create favourable conditions for the economic development of the industry, while preserving the current environmental protection programme.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the responsible management and disposal of waste harmful to the environment and to humans is of vital importance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in this report, the european parliament gave its general approval to the commission's proposal for a directive establishing an eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the legal framework proposed by the commission aims to oblige member states to establish national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the european parliament's report proposes the following improvements to the text of the future directive: it establishes the so-called principle of reversibility, which would allow access even to waste buried by deep geological burial, for example if recycling methods for such waste were developed in the future. the communication also proposes to impose stricter financial obligations on member states, obliging them to allocate the costs of possible waste management, as well as to finance reserves, and proposes a system for managing regional waste management projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it sets out the eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the proposal sets out specific requirements to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and develop appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, from generation to disposal. the management of spent fuel and nuclear waste is of paramount importance for both environmental and public safety. but we cannot guarantee security without adequate funding, and i believe that the closure of nuclear power stations such as ignalina should be a matter of concern not only for one member state, in this case lithuania, but for all of europe.
in writing. − every effort should be made to adopt the safest solutions for nuclear fuel and radioactive waste management. the fukushima nuclear accident has shown that the disposal of radioactive waste remains a complex, risky process with potentially devastating negative consequences. nuclear safety assessments, tests and controls must therefore be carried out on a continuous basis. we need to exchange best practice on this subject on a regular basis across the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. it is essential that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from generation to disposal. in the interests of safety and economy, i believe that member states may share spent fuel and radioactive waste facilities, but only if both parties agree. this will allow member states to benefit from the favourable geological and technical advantages of the specific site and to share the financial burden of the joint project. it should be noted that spent fuel pools present high risks and hazards and all unused fuel must be transferred to dry storage as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it contains guidelines for the establishment of the 2012 budget of the european union and gives meps the power to represent the european parliament in the tripartite negotiations with the council and the european commission on the draft 2012 budget. the communication stresses that next year's budget must be designed to help europe recover as quickly as possible from the economic and social crisis. for this reason, member states are encouraged to continue investing in those areas that boost growth and employment, but it is also noted that the european union budget should support the collective efforts of member states to consolidate national budgets in times of economic difficulties. the communication encourages continued investment in youth education, mobility and employment, support and promotion of small businesses, scientific innovation, social inclusion and poverty reduction.
in writing. − i have supported this document because the necessary investments, both at eu and national level, need to be made and cannot be delayed any longer, in order to improve educational levels and promote social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty, and to promote the creation of a knowledge society based on the eu's common scientific and technological capabilities, and therefore support research, development, innovation, smes and the development of technologies that use resources efficiently. support for training, mobility and employment of young people, smes, research and development should be a key priority of the eu budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that demographic change, climate change and the objectives of territorial cohesion policy require a review and modernisation of the eu's common agricultural policy. the resolution adopted calls for the eu budget to maintain its current level of agricultural expenditure, but calls for the elimination of disparities in the allocation of these funds to the member states. the resolution proposes to introduce a system of incentives for farmers to develop organic and sustainable agriculture through the efficient management of limited resources and the reduction of the use of means of production. it is also proposed to differentiate payments between different agricultural sectors and farmers and to strengthen the bargaining power of farmers in the food supply chain. the paper also focuses on the impact of agricultural policy on reducing the differences in the level of territorial and economic development between the different regions of the eu, on rural development and on promoting young farmers.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because a sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector in europe can make an important contribution to achieving the objectives of the cap and the europe 2020 strategy as laid down in the treaties, and can also help to address new policy challenges such as food, energy and raw material security, the fight against climate change, the protection of the environment and biodiversity, health and demographic change in the eu. i welcome very much the commission's communication on the cap towards 2020. the future challenges of food security, natural resources and territorial balance are to be addressed. i believe that further cap reform is needed to respond to the changing nature of the agricultural industry in the eu27 and to the new international circumstances of globalisation. it is necessary to maintain a strong and sustainable cap in the future by providing budgetary allocations to achieve ambitious objectives while facing new challenges. the most important objective, i am convinced, is to ensure that aid is distributed fairly between the member states and the different categories of farmers. at present, new member states such as lithuania receive less financial support than the old european member states. i am convinced that the harmonisation of direct payments is one of the essential conditions for the creation of a single eu agricultural market. last spring, i joined a group of other meps in calling on the european commission, the council and parliament to harmonise direct payments to farmers in all member states.
in writing. − a sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector is the key to food security, natural resources and territorial balance. as the world's population continues to grow, the world's agricultural production will have to grow in proportion. we must therefore aim to create a strong and sustainable cap that responds to the changing nature of the agricultural industry in all member states. we need to take the best decisions to combat rural decline and to counter possible pressure on the agricultural economy from third countries. more attention should be paid to smes. the disparities between the granting of aid and the support to farmers must be eliminated. direct payments are a legitimate source of income for european farmers. the single payment scheme must therefore ensure that direct payments are distributed fairly and that a level playing field is created throughout the eu. each member state shall receive the lowest percentage of the average direct payments. to achieve this, it is necessary to set ceilings. it is essential that market regulation measures and intervention mechanisms are put in place to ensure fair prices for production and to provide farmers with a sufficient level of income to ensure continuity of production and a regular supply of food.
in writing. − dear colleagues, lithuanian farmers work hard and make a significant contribution to our society. however, there are limits to what they can achieve if local infrastructure and funding are insufficient. if the future cap is to win the approval of eu taxpayers, it must guarantee food security and jobs. the eu's agricultural budget should therefore remain unchanged. lithuania cannot afford to look to the agricultural sector. last year, my country's agricultural exports amounted to eur 2.6 billion, and farmers in lithuania account for 7.1% of the total workforce, compared to the eu average of 4.8%. the cap must help us achieve a competitive, sustainable farming and an active rural economy. according to eu statistics published last month, lithuania is still trying to catch up with the eu-27 with a rural development rate of 51.5% in the cap and 23.3% in the eu-27. we must continue to support our farmers in their efforts to modernise their farms. i support the rapporteur's call for a fair distribution of aid between member states and between different categories of farmers. the new member states, such as lithuania, now receive less financial support than the old member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, after dealing with nuclear energy we are now broaching another sensitive subject: gmos. it is immensely tricky to find a perfect balance between those who would like to show a red light to gmos – seeing them only as a danger – and those who want to give them a green light, seeing them as cause for hope. the rapporteur, corinne lepage, has managed this delicate task very skilfully and prepared a balanced report, which received broad support during the committee on the environment, public health and food safety vote. at the moment, the member states and the council cannot find common ground on which approve or reject gmos. governments feel the scepticism of public opinion and try to transfer responsibility to the commission. at the same time, there is no consensus behind the removal of any safeguard clauses if member states decide to introduce them. the eu is, therefore, in a hypocritical situation where the council does not approve gmos, but some member states cultivate them. gmos approved for eu-wide use should be cleared for cultivation in the union, but they are banned in some member states. this report will bring more legal certainty for member states and could help to break the existing deadlock. usually our group is a proponent of a community approach, but in this particular case we should not have a one-size-fits-all policy. the inclusion of complementary environmental reasons – as well as a list of social and economic grounds for the restriction or prohibition of gmos by member states – will make this report more legally solid. this report should not in any way prevent member states from cultivating eu-approved gmos if they so wish, nor should it hamper research. but each country has to solve the problem of co-existence and take all necessary steps to avoid the unintended presence of gmos in their territory and in their neighbouring countries.
in writing. it is clear from the comments made by colleagues today that the european parliament has a strong and clear position on the cultivation of genetically modified crops in the eu member states. european citizens are also strongly opposed to the release of gmos into the environment . over a million signatures have been collected in favor of the cultivation of genetically modified crops. i think that the ep's position today is a good reflection of the mood in society. indeed, we still lack reliable, objective and unbiased data on the long-term environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified crops, and we must therefore respect the will of our citizens and allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the issue of labelling of gmo products is also of great importance in this context. these products and derived products are already on the market and it is therefore necessary to ensure the very clear and comprehensible labelling of such products, which has not been done properly so far.
we voted today on a rather controversial issue about the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. 61% of europeans are concerned about the consumption of gm foods, and an equal number of europeans are opposed to incentives to develop the production of gm foods. however, it must be acknowledged that a significant proportion, 21%, of the european population has a positive view of gmos and expresses the belief that they should not cause harm to future generations. neither the arguments for the negative effects nor the arguments for the positive effects, nor the arguments for the solution of food shortages by gmos, are fully scientifically based. this means that it is impossible to find a solution that is uniform for all countries. the view of the member states also differs, and the proposal to allow the member states to restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory is therefore very correct. that is why i voted in favour of the corinne lepage report.
while we talk about the greater added value of cohesion policy for the european union and wonder whether some projects could not be implemented at national or regional level, we must also see the big picture. the reality is that many eu countries are still below the eu average. as a lithuanian, who has been supported to close these differences since joining the union, i see my country changing. the majority of new projects that improve the quality of people, whether in the environment, transport or social sphere, are implemented in lithuania with eu funds. nevertheless, we still have a long way to go before we reach the eu average. but it is not possible to do so on our own. this is why, even after 2013, the new member states of the european union must be guaranteed an adequate level of funding. this is the only way to ensure the balanced development of the european union by acting in solidarity.
i welcome the report by my colleague, sosa wagner, which is well balanced and comprehensive, and which also reflects important aspects such as the unconditional nature of the environmental impact assessment of new projects. the call for third countries to respect international environmental and other commitments in the development of new energy projects is also not forgotten. propose ways to move towards an efficient, co2-reducing and flexible european supernet. however, i would stress that in order to achieve an integrated and competitive european internal energy market by 2014 at the latest, it is not enough to implement legislation and ensure regulation properly. the full and efficient functioning of the eu internal market is not possible without the full integration of the energy islands into the eu energy system through new infrastructure connections. it is therefore necessary to carry out a rapid and consistent inventory of existing and missing infrastructure and to develop financial instruments to enable the objective of a physically integrated internal market to be fully achieved by 2014. infrastructure shortfalls should be one of the important criteria for determining the hierarchy of projects of european interest.
in writing. - i voted for this document. in order to provide additional support to workers who have suffered damage as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system and to assist them in re-entering the labour market, the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary measures and has set up a european globalisation adjustment fund. in view of the significant impact of the global financial and economic crisis on european industry, the scope of the egf was extended in 2009 to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of the crisis. in this case, denmark requested aid in connection with the dismissal of 1356 employees (of which 950 were to be assisted) from the company 'odense steel shipyard', which is active in the shipbuilding sector in the municipality of odense in the south of denmark. as the application meets the criteria, i support the call to provide the necessary support to people who have lost their jobs as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. - i have agreed to this document because denmark has requested aid for the dismissal of 1356 workers (of whom 950 are to be dismissed) from the company 'odense steel shipyard', which operates in the shipbuilding sector in the municipality of odense in southern denmark. the application complied with the criteria for the granting of a financial contribution set out in the egf regulation. the commission therefore proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 14 181 901.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to grant financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund to slovenia, croatia and the czech republic. the interinstitutional agreement provides for the possibility of using the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. these countries were severely affected by natural disasters in 2010, which have caused damage to the majority of their population and whose consequences will have long-term consequences for living conditions in the region and its economic stability.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as draft amending budget no 2/2011 for the general budget 2011 aims to mobilise eur 19.5 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund following floods caused by heavy rainfall in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic.
in writing. - i voted for this document. in order to provide additional support to workers who have suffered damage as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system and to assist them in re-entering the labour market, the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary measures and has set up a european globalisation adjustment fund. in view of the significant impact of the global financial and economic crisis on european industry, the scope of the egf was extended in 2009 to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of the crisis. in this case, denmark requested aid in connection with the dismissal of 1650 employees (of which 825 were to be made redundant) from the machinery and equipment manufacturing company lm glasfiber in three municipalities in the southern part of denmark (sidanmark). as the application meets the criteria, i support the call to provide the necessary support to people who have lost their jobs as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. − i have agreed to this document because denmark has requested aid for the redundancies of 1650 workers (of whom 825 are to be made redundant) in the company 'lm glasfiber', which operates in the sector classified in the european community classification of economic activities under chapter 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in three municipalities in the south of denmark (sidanmark). the application complied with the criteria for the granting of a financial contribution set out in the egf regulation. the commission therefore proposes to allocate an amount of eur 6 247 415.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the establishment of an agency for the management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the new body will be responsible for the operational management of the large-scale it system used to control eu external borders (schengen information system ii) and for database-exchange systems to be used in pursuit of a common visa policy (visa information system) and the comparison of asylum seekers’ fingerprints to facilitate the examination of asylum applications (eurodac), as well as other future systems in this field. it will be important that the agency keeps these systems functioning 24 hours a day, seven days a week, ensuring a continuous flow of data exchange. member states are responsible for entering the data into the systems. the agency will be based in tallinn (estonia), and i would like to congratulate estonia on being able to host this important body.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which establishes an agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. with the increasing number of attacks on the internet, it is of particular importance to protect the eu information network against various threats and to ensure the security of not only the network itself but also the data transmitted through it. i supported the establishment of the agency in a single location for security and budgetary reasons and the reinforcement of the role of the european parliament in the selection of candidates for the post of executive director.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because some important questions in this area need to be answered before the agency can be set up to manage the operations of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. first, why this new agency of such magnitude is needed. clearly, there is no other way. it would be rather unfair to put all the responsibility on the european commission, especially in view of the long-standing problems with the development of systems that have emerged in recent years. furthermore, the commission itself has stated on several occasions that its management of the eurodac system is only a temporary solution and that it does not consider itself to be suited to assume responsibility for the direct management of large-scale it systems. the creation of an executive agency would not be an option, as it would not allow the legislature to influence the agency and exercise democratic control. the commission alone shall be responsible for the establishment and supervision of executive agencies. it shall determine the tasks of those agencies and appoint their management bodies, including the directors. the existence of an executive agency is limited in time and its creation would be a temporary solution.
in writing. - i abstained in voting in favour of this document, as it proposes the creation of an agency to manage the schengen information system, the visa information system and the 'eurodac' system (fingerprinting). clearly, solutions should be sought, in particular to avoid the creation of an additional agency, as this entails additional costs and an expansion of the administrative apparatus. it would also be rather unfair to attribute responsibility to the commission, especially in view of the long-standing problems with the development of the systems that have emerged in recent years. furthermore, the commission itself has indicated on several occasions that its management of eurodac is only a temporary solution and that it does not consider itself to be suited to assume the responsibility for the direct management of large-scale it systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (formerly article 299 (2) of the ec treaty) allows the european council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, to establish specific measures for the outermost regions, taking account of their economic and social situation. the continuing difficulties, such as isolation, distance from large markets, small size, difficult topographical and climatic conditions, economic dependence due to a limited choice of goods, are very detrimental to the development of these regions and fully justify the use of the approved measures. the commission proposal for a council decision proposes to extend the list of french guiana products benefiting from reduced dock dues by 50 products. the european parliament also supports the continued application or exemption from the reduced dockage tax for the french overseas departments after 2014.
in writing. − specific measures must be applied after an appropriate assessment of the economic and social situation of the outermost regions. it should be noted that the continuing difficulties associated with the remoteness and isolation of regions increase the production costs and the cost of the products produced, which makes the products uncompetitive. all this is very damaging to regional industry and development. the reduction or total exemption from dock dues is one of the measures that stimulate and support local economic activity, employment and contribute to economic stability. in view of this, i consider it appropriate to extend the list of products subject to the differentiated dock levy in french guiana. this will allow the majority of products to be produced locally and to remain on the market. moreover, the revenue generated by this tax is an important instrument of the investment policy aimed at local development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on universal service and the 112 emergency number. we meps believe that the european emergency number 112 can be a lifesaving number and that it should be smoothly operational throughout the union. we urge the commission to ensure that every section of society has access to this service, including people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. to that end, it is important that the commission and member states improve the accuracy and reliability of caller location information under the new eu telecoms rules and upgrade the relevant technology with the ultimate goal of mandatory automatic location for all 112 calls. i support the rapporteur’s view that it would be a great achievement to establish a ‘reverse 112 system’, i.e. an eu-wide, universal, multilingual, accessible, simplified and efficient interconnected system of warning and alerting citizens in the event of imminent or developing natural and/or man-made major emergencies and disasters of any type.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the introduction of the european emergency number 112 was intended to increase the protection of eu citizens and to provide them with immediate assistance in all eu countries by calling the same number and to ensure the smooth operation of the emergency number 112 throughout the union. however, the possibilities of the european emergency number 112 are still not fully exploited. a eurobarometer survey published in 2011 revealed that only 26% of eu citizens know that 112 is a number to call emergency services, and 58% of the population believe that there is insufficient information on the emergency telephone number. i support the call for the commission and the member states to continue their information activities so that the information on the 112 emergency number reaches all eu citizens and travellers through the media, in particular the press and audio and video media. the information campaigns should focus on practical information, such as the fact that 112 is a european emergency number which can be called free of charge from fixed or mobile phones throughout the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to give the 112 helpline the support it needs to become the best protection of citizens' lives. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to increase awareness of the 112 emergency number and the fact that the 112 emergency number has so far provided citizens with a poor quality of service. the latest consumer markets performance index shows that the telecommunications market is one of the least performing sectors at european union level. in particular, the telecommunications market is one of the markets where consumers have the greatest difficulty in comparing offers, where consumers face the greatest number of problems and where the greatest number of complaints are lodged. the price differences for internet access services between eu countries are also much higher. internet provision is generally the third worst-performing market, the market with the highest share of consumers experiencing problems and the highest price differences between eu countries. i therefore support the european parliament's proposal that the commission should carry out a thorough investigation of internet services following the publication of the fourth consumer markets scoreboard.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the report aims to assess the developments in the basic concept of universal service as enshrined in the universal service directive, taking into account the latest trends, including universal broadband access, methodological coordination and financing, and the specific needs of vulnerable groups in society and users with disabilities. the report also focuses on the single european emergency number 112, which was introduced to enable people to call emergency services at a single number anywhere in the eu. the 112 helpline needs to be better known and the fact that the 112 helpline has so far provided citizens with a poor quality of service. the 112 helpline needs to be given the support it needs to become the best protection for the lives of citizens, otherwise the consequences may outweigh the benefits. however, i believe that the differences in prices for internet access services between eu countries are also much higher and need to be reduced. i believe that member states must take the necessary measures to reduce the number of unsuccessful attempts to call for help, to reduce the time between the call and the response and to reduce the number of false calls.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the single european emergency telephone number must be able to function effectively even in the most remote corner of europe, so that emergency services can be called free of charge in the event of a disaster. this is a vital service which must be of the highest quality. this helpline must become the best protection for people's lives and therefore needs to be appropriately funded. the emergency services of each member state must receive accurate and reliable information on the location of callers in order to provide emergency assistance in a timely manner. it is essential to ensure that the most vulnerable groups in society and persons with disabilities have appropriate access to this service. technical and coordination issues must be resolved as soon as possible. the number of failed calls must be kept to a minimum and the call-response time must be rapid, as even a few seconds can be crucial. every european must know this number. each member state shall raise public awareness through the media, the press and other means of public information. member states also need to cooperate more effectively with each other in the exchange of information and best practice. in the meantime, the commission must take steps to develop an eu-wide communication strategy, and to set key performance indicators and guidelines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu citizens still cannot enjoy the full benefits of the single market, and in particular the choice of goods and services at competitive prices. this is particularly true in less economically developed member states, where people have to pay similar prices for goods and services as in more economically advanced countries. this is largely due to the concentration of the market in wholesale trade, which, due to the large market share it holds, can offer more favourable prices. the problem today is that member states have different interpretations of eu internal market legislation, which fundamentally hinders the free movement of goods and services in the eu and leads to additional costs for consumers and traders, especially smes, which limits the potential benefits of the single market for europe's citizens and businesses. i agree that in order to ensure greater transparency and comparability of prices for consumers, the commission must continue to analyse price differences in the eu on the basis of appropriate statistical tools, without prejudice to national tax and labour market provisions, thus enabling consumers to make choices and at the same time fostering greater confidence in cross-border trade.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is about creating jobs and removing barriers, obstacles and difficulties to trade in europe. the retail and distribution sector is a pillar of the european economy, employing almost 20 million people and accounting for 20% of europe's small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). unfortunately, national barriers are often created to protect jobs and smes. instead, trade barriers in europe must be removed to promote job creation and support smes. however, in times of financial and economic crisis, the fear of people losing their jobs and the fear of smes losing their business must be taken seriously. in order to improve mutual understanding, restore trust and resolve difficulties, dialogue at all levels needs to be strengthened. i agree that it is time to recognise the achievements of the retail and distribution sector, its challenges and its difficulties. i therefore support the european parliament's call for an integrated european action plan on trade and distribution, setting out policy guidelines and making concrete proposals to address the outstanding issues more effectively.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as a means of promoting and removing obstacles to the expansion of the trade and distribution market in the eu. the retail and distribution sector is a pillar of the european economy. it is a dynamic market employing almost 20 million people, representing 4.2% of eu gdp and accounting for 20% of european smes. traders are also service providers, at the forefront of new and different ways of buying, such as direct sales, and providing easy access to labour markets. member states must fully and correctly implement internal market rules and legislation, in particular the goods package, the services directive, the late payments directive, the e-commerce directive, the small business act and the unfair commercial practices directive. also eliminate duplicative provisions and reduce administrative burden and control barriers, as these can reduce growth and job creation. it is necessary to take into account the concerns expressed by certain sectors of civil society and smes regarding the increase in shopping centres in remote areas and urban centres and the decrease in local shops and markets. i believe that there is a need to encourage the renovation of buildings in cities, which could be achieved by using structural funds, reducing public utilities (public-private partnerships) and encouraging the return of economic activity, especially local businesses, which would promote economic and social development.
in writing. − the retail and distribution sector is a pillar of the european economy and all obstacles to the development of an efficient and fair retail and distribution market must be removed. member states, in turn, have to implement internal market rules and legislation fully and correctly. it is important to note that smes play a key role in employment and value creation. they are particularly important in rural areas and in the urban centres. in this context, we must make every effort to ensure that large shopping centres do not crowd out local shops and markets from urban centres or remote areas. small traders must be able to make better use of the freedoms of the internal market. we need to encourage the uptake of their services. the use of structural funds funding must be made more efficient to achieve this objective. in addition, administrative burdens and restrictions on market access must be reduced. the big shopping centres cannot be allowed to exploit their power and influence to the detriment of small business owners.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as draft amending budget no 3/2011 aims to transfer the surplus for the 2010 financial year, amounting to eur 4 539 394 283, to the 2011 budget. the main part of the revenue (eur 1,28 billion out of eur 1,8 billion) is derived from interest on late payments and fines. eur 2,72 billion was not spent due to the incomplete implementation of the programme, the incomplete use of the free reserves and the funds provided for in other budget headings and the carry-over of appropriations from 2009 to 2010. the ep believes that the calculated share of revenue derived from interest on late payments and fines should not be considered an excess and should therefore not be deducted from the member states' contributions (own resources based on gnp). the revenue generated by the implementation of eu competition policy should be immediately set aside and reinvested in the eu budget. i believe that this principle should be promoted and defended in the future negotiations on the annual and multiannual budgets.
in writing. − i believe that the surplus for the 2010 budget should be included in the 2011 budget, but without creating an additional administrative or fiscal burden for the member states. the main part of the revenue from interest on late payments or fines should not be deducted from the contributions of the member states, as this would put many member states in a different position and create potentially discriminatory conditions. in my view, this revenue should not be considered as an excess and should therefore not be deducted from the contributions of the member states. it is essential that this revenue generated by the implementation of the european union's competition policy is deferred and continued to be invested in the eu budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support its objective of establishing an effective and legally binding mechanism for the protection of consumers' rights. the current regulation, which established the consumer rights cooperation network in 2006, aims to monitor and ensure the enforcement of legislation protecting consumers' interests. the scope of the network for cooperation in the field of consumer protection is covered by the legislation listed in the annex to the regulation. the proposed amendment regulation aims to update the content of the annex to take account of recent developments in consumer protection legislation. this annex will be updated by deleting legislation that is outdated for the cooperation of national authorities responsible for enforcement in the field of consumer protection and replacing the references to outdated legislation with references to new consumer protection legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the regulation seeks to remove the obstacles to crossborder cooperation faced by enforcement authorities in order to identify, investigate and bring to an end or ban infringements of consumer protection legislation across the eu. the regulation aims to address the problem of fraudulent traders operating across borders in an effective and efficient manner, which hampers the effective functioning of the internal market, and thus to increase consumer confidence in accepting offers from abroad and preventing sellers and suppliers from circumventing enforcement or harming compliant sellers and suppliers. the objectives of the regulation are pursued through the establishment of a network of all eu public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws in the member states (consumer protection cooperation network). the network established by the regulation monitors and ensures the enforcement of legislation protecting consumers' interests. the regulation on consumer protection cooperation partially harmonises the powers of investigation and enforcement of the institutions and provides for the mechanisms for exchanging relevant information and/or for taking action to prevent infringements in cases of a cross-border nature.
in writing. − national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation need to cooperate actively with each other, making better use of the possibilities of the consumer rights cooperation network. in particular, there is a need to provide the authorities with more means to effectively detect, investigate and bring to an end or prohibit infringements adversely affecting the common interests of consumers in cases of a cross-border nature and to prevent fraudulent traders. it is also essential that the eu-wide enforcement authorities establish common priorities and draw up multiannual plans. member states should make effective use of the consumer rights cooperation network to facilitate the exchange of information and the handling of requests for mutual assistance. only by implementing these measures will the objectives set be achieved and the public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation be able to function properly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. as meps, we are calling for transparency and stability, in particular with regard to those derivatives which are traded on stock exchanges and can cause massive disruption to financial markets. we are also calling for standard procedures, reporting requirements and the use of clearing devices via organised trade platforms. i support the rapporteur’s view that the volume of all transactions has to be transparent in order to ensure maximum financial market stability and enable supervisory authorities to do their work properly. it is important to stress that national supervisory authorities and the european securities and markets agency (esma) will be in charge of supervision.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the financial crisis has raised the issue of the robustness and transparency of the otc derivatives market. the g20 agreed that, from the end of 2012 at the latest, all standardised otc derivative contracts should be traded on exchanges or, where appropriate, via electronic trading platforms, using ccp clearing. otc derivative contracts should be reported to trade repositories. this regulation lays down the conditions for the authorisation of ccps, the criteria for the verification of the proper clearing of ccps, the reporting of otc derivatives to trade repositories where the information collected may be used, inter alia, for systemic risk analysis. however, it should be borne in mind that any regulation should be applied with restraint. when regulation is insufficient, the market is threatened. when regulation is too strict, costs increase and, in some cases, prices for end-users increase. in some food and energy products, such effects would not be desirable.
in writing. − the otc derivatives market must remain robust, transparent and competitive. this is why it is essential to establish a balanced regulatory approach, since under-regulation threatens the market and over-regulation increases costs and even prices for end-users. ccp clearing can pose systemic risks, which is why it is essential that ccps have robust risk and default management strategies that do not pass on the risk to the taxpayer. i believe that pension funds with a low risk profile should be required to report and implement risk mitigation measures for otc derivative contracts that are not cleared by a ccp. the clearing obligation should apply as long as the net position and exposures in non-financial derivative contracts exceed the clearing threshold. it should be noted that in all cases we must ensure that disproportionate costs to pensioners are avoided. in addition, the european supervisory authorities should be given more powers, giving them the power to impose fines for infringements of this regulation.
in writing. - i voted for the report. directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2002 (the financial conglomerates directive) proposed supplementary and consolidated supervision of financial groups. the purpose of this supplementary supervision is to control the potential risks associated with dual use (i.e. re-use of capital) and the so-called group risks, i.e. risks of proliferation, management complexity, concentration and conflict of interest, which may arise when a single entity holds several authorisations to provide various financial services. all eu directives relating to banking and insurance activities aim to ensure the protection of customers and insured persons and to calculate adequate capital buffers for this purpose, while the financial conglomerates directive (fcd) regulates additional group risk supervision. i support the revision of this directive, which will help ensure appropriate supplementary supervision and close the gaps in supplementary supervision, as only european union legislation can ensure that financial conglomerates operating in several member states are subject to the same requirements and the same supervision.
in writing. −it is necessary to provide for additional supervision of financial entities forming a financial conglomerate in order to close the existing gaps. i believe that the powers of supervisory authorities should be extended at european level, giving them the power to supervise mixed financial holding companies in a similar way to the banking or insurance sectors. to this end, those supervisory authorities should develop common guidelines for the supervision of financial conglomerates. this will increase the transparency of the supervision of financial conglomerates. in order to ensure that citizens' interests are properly represented in this area, to ensure the smooth running of the legislative process, to ensure legal transparency and to allow for the swift verification of the compliance of national rules with eu provisions, member states are required to draw up and submit to the commission compliance tables showing the links between the transposition measures they have adopted and the eu directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it gives more powers to the new european securities supervisory authority. i believe that increased supervision is necessary in the sale of debt securities and certain credit obligations in order to avoid economic crises in the future. member states have adopted different measures as the union does not have a specific legal framework to address the problems of sales of securities lent. therefore, in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, to improve the conditions under which it operates, in particular financial markets, and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection, a common framework of requirements and powers should be established for the sale of debt securities and credit default swaps, and better coordination and consistency should be ensured between member states when measures are required in exceptional circumstances. it is necessary to harmonise the system for the sale of debt securities and certain aspects of credit default swaps in order to avoid the creation of barriers to the internal market, as it is likely that member states will continue to take different measures.
in writing. − i think that a common framework is very necessary in this area of financial markets. we must make every effort to reduce the risks arising from the sale of debt securities and credit default swaps in a consistent manner. it is essential that the sale of debt securities and the swap of credit default swaps are properly managed by the escb. to achieve this, the authority needs to be given more powers. it should be noted that credit default swaps in sovereign debt securities are a highly effective and efficient way to reduce the risk of various financial instruments. in this context, it is necessary to define objective criteria for market instability. there must be strict control and monitoring of the sale of securities to borrowers without agreement and a discipline in settlement, and no restrictions or requirements should be imposed on market makers in exceptional situations. only if all these measures are implemented will the financial markets function smoothly and achieve optimal results.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. directive 97/9/ec on investor-compensation schemes (icsp) was adopted in 1997 to complement the investment services directive, which was subsequently replaced by the markets in financial instruments directive (mfid). ten years after the entry into force of the iczm and following the financial crisis, the operation of the iczm was reviewed as the commission received numerous complaints from investors concerning the application of this directive, which sometimes resulted in very high losses for investors. the review of this directive should also take into account the objectives set at g20 level to close all regulatory and supervisory loopholes and to restore investor confidence in the financial system. the objectives of the proposal cannot be fully achieved by member states alone, as the current eu system provides only for a few minimum harmonisation principles, leaving member states free to develop it further. however, the problems encountered in some member states show that additional and much wider harmonisation at eu level is necessary to ensure that the eu achieves the objectives of the directive. the amendments to this directive will improve the proper functioning of the single market for investment services, enhance investor protection and investor confidence in the european union and establish common rules aimed at ensuring the harmonisation of system financing and day-to-day practice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the new eu legislation should increase the coherence and integration of the european single market, strengthen consumer protection, increase consumer and depository confidence and enhance financial stability. main objectives: to increase consumer protection through a higher level of compensation. better consumer protection and stricter common rules, in particular as regards the financing of systems at national level, need to be ensured. investors with investments in foreign countries should enjoy the same level of protection in all member states. consumer rights should be strengthened by faster and better payments and by ensuring greater protection. where an investment firm holds financial instruments on behalf of a consumer (customer), a system of investor compensation should be in place accordingly. it also aims to improve the single european market for financial services and to ensure the coherence of eu investor compensation schemes. this will enhance investor protection and contribute to a level playing field. there is a need for more and better harmonisation of eu legislation. establish strict financial principles for long-term investor compensation schemes. the contributions of schemes should be defined as general insurance arrangements and should not be so high as to constitute a tax or a payment of a fiscal nature. the systems should consistently apply a risk-based approach and the contributions should be calculated on the basis of the potential compensation risk incurred by the undertaking.
in writing. − the european single market must function harmoniously, its integration must be constantly promoted, consumer protection must be strengthened. consumers and depositaries need to be confident that they are operating in a stable financial environment. an effective compensation system is needed, and more stringent common rules on financing at national level. it is essential that investors with investments in foreign countries enjoy the same level of protection in all member states. i agree with the proposal that the level of compensation should be increased to eur 100 000. in addition, in cases where an investment firm or a third party becomes insolvent, it is essential to facilitate the return of financial instruments held by investors. in order to strengthen investor protection by creating a level playing field for investors, it is necessary, in particular, to improve the european single market for financial services, to harmonise eu legislation. it is necessary to establish strict financial principles for long-term investor compensation schemes, to reduce the contributions of schemes so that they are considered as general insurance arrangements rather than as taxes or payments of a fiscal nature.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because it is a proposal for a european society that is strongly opposed to the release of gmos into the environment and their use in agriculture. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, 61% of europeans think that the consumption of gm foods is a concern, and a similar proportion (61%) are against encouraging the expansion of gm food production. only 21 percent agree (and 58 percent disagree) that gm foods are safe for future generations. in no country does a majority of respondents agree that gmo cultivation is beneficial to their country's economy. moreover, there is not yet enough information and reliable scientific evidence to say that gm products and the food produced from them are completely safe for the environment and human health.
in writing. − it is essential that we work together to fight the release of gmos into the environment and their use in agriculture. we must give member states the right to decide for themselves whether to ban or restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory. therefore, when adopting measures restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of all or of specific gmos, they should take into account factors related to the protection of flora and fauna, land use or town and country planning. in all cases, all factors shall be duly justified and the measures applied shall be scientifically justified or supported by arguments relating to risk management or other justified factors arising from the release of the gmo into the environment. in order for insurance to function effectively, member states should establish a common mandatory system of financial reporting and financial guarantees. i believe that studies should be carried out as soon as possible to determine the long-term environmental impact of gm crops and their possible effects on non-target organisms. in addition, the commission should make every effort to ensure that new gmo risk assessment guidelines are adopted in the near future, identifying the direct or indirect long-term effects and scientific concerns.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the drafting of the hungarian constitution lacked transparency and the new constitution was drafted and adopted in a very short time, leaving insufficient time for a comprehensive and substantive public debate on the draft constitution. in addition, the constitution has been widely criticised by national, european and international ngos and other organisations, the venice commission and the governments of the member states, as no political and social consensus has been reached on this crucial document. it is of concern that the new constitution does not explicitly enshrine some of the principles that hungary is obliged to respect and promote as a result of its legally binding international obligations, such as the prohibition of the death penalty and life imprisonment without the possibility of early release of prisoners on certain conditions, the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and the suspension or limitation of the exercise of fundamental rights by special decrees. i therefore support the european parliament's position that the new constitution and constitutional laws to be adopted in the future need to be thoroughly reviewed and analysed in order to verify their conformity with community law, in particular the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and the text and principles of the treaties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the constitution-making process lacked transparency and the new constitution was drafted and adopted in a very short time, leaving insufficient time for a comprehensive and substantive public debate on the draft constitution, and because a successful and legitimate constitution should be based on the widest possible consensus. the hungarian authorities are invited to address the problems and concerns raised by the venice commission and to implement the recommendations by amending the new constitution or by adopting future constitutional and simple laws. in the meantime, the commission is invited to thoroughly review and analyse the new constitution and constitutional laws to be adopted in the future, in order to verify whether they are in conformity with community law, in particular the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and the text and principles of the treaties. the drafting and adoption of a new constitution is a matter for the member states, and the existing and prospective member states and the eu must ensure that the content and procedure of the constitution are in line with the eu values, the charter of fundamental rights and the echr, and that the content and principles of the constitutions adopted are not incompatible with those values and legislation. it should be noted that hungary is a signatory to the echr, the international covenant on civil and political rights and other international instruments which oblige it to respect and apply the principles of separation of powers, balance of powers and promotion of democracy and human rights.
in writing. - the constitution the supreme law. it is a complex process. a constitution cannot be written in a day. this legislative process must be based on the broadest possible consensus in order to ensure transparency and to create the conditions for genuine political and social inclusion and a broad public debate. i believe that the hungarian authorities should take the recommendations of the venice commission into account and implement them properly in their own country's constitution. the basic law of the country must take due account of the social and political life of the country, and the rule of law must be implemented. it should be noted that tax and pension systems, family policy, cultural, religious, social and economic issues must be clearly regulated at constitutional level. it is essential that the constitution guarantees the protection of the political and civil rights of every citizen, guarantees the independence of the judiciary and prohibits the death penalty. as a democratic state, hungary must respect the territorial integrity of other countries by supporting hungarians living abroad. it is important to note that the new constitution of hungary must be in line with the values of the european union, human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the absence of a global agreement to ensure a level playing field for measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, some european industries will continue to face unfair competition unless specific measures are maintained for sectors facing carbon leakage. progress at the global level is the only way to tackle climate change, and the european union must continue to encourage its partners to deliver on their commitments. the european commission, for its part, should reorganise the eu's climate diplomacy, working with the newly established european external action service and the high representative of the union to develop a clearer eu climate policy, giving a new impetus to international climate negotiations and incentives to partners around the world by setting binding greenhouse gas reduction targets. i agree with the european parliament's call for the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a proposal to increase europe's climate change target to 30% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 5th cohesion report and the strategy for the post-2013 cohesion policy. today, we members of the european parliament demanded stronger rules and more transparency for eu structural funds in the next financing period – 2013 to 2020. although the rules for using eu structural funds are already tough, it is important to find a balanced approach which helps avoid the misuse of eu funds and combats fraud. the european parliament is of the opinion that eu structural funds should provide greater support for border regions. i support the rapporteur in saying that more cross-border motorway connections, railway lines and shipping routes could provide a strong impetus for economic growth.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the importance of the european community as a whole will decline, as shown by the overall growth and population projections. today, the eu of 27 member states still accounts for 8% of the world's population, but will only account for 5% in 2050. its economic importance will decrease from the current 20% to 12% due to growth, especially in china and other important emerging economies. in order to survive in economic and political competition and to avoid a decline in prosperity due to the loss of importance, the european community of states must address the important issues of future security in a more concentrated way, and cohesion and structural policies will therefore have a key role to play in future competitiveness. future policy must be geared to growth and innovation, but it will be sustainable if regional policy objectives are linked to common european objectives relating to innovation, research and environmental challenges, and if the practical experience of richer regions is taken into account. it is also necessary to reduce regional and social disparities which prevent the eu from realising its full potential, since, despite the trend towards reducing regional disparities, large imbalances still persist, and in some member states, or even increase in comparison with others. i agree that cohesion policy must continue to focus on reducing regional disparities and on the harmonious and sustainable development of all regions of the union, regardless of the member state in which they are located.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy after 2013 has to take account of many important challenges, including social disparities in urban areas, demographic change and social exclusion. moreover, the economic and social imbalances of the regions, the geographical disadvantages of certain regions and the specific structural problems or the need to adapt to new challenges will continue to require a broad-based well-funded eu cohesion policy across all european regions. moreover, transparency of cohesion policy and its programming cycle, cost allocation and access to information for potential beneficiaries of structural funds is a key prerequisite for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy and should therefore become a key principle in the cross-sectoral cohesion programming and decision-making process for the next funding period. the open method of coordination should also be strengthened, and better cooperation and exchange of information between national, regional and local authorities on cohesion policy issues should be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the eu's cohesion policy has made a major contribution to productivity gains in all eu regions over the past and current support periods. the ex post evaluation shows a clear reduction in economic, social and regional disparities. these trends have a positive impact on social protection and investment in the environment. cohesion policy was conceived as a response to the single market and was intended to promote the development of an innovative and secure europe based on solidarity, taking into account the challenges of globalisation, demographic change and the conservation of resources, while the internal potential of all regions should be exploited to achieve higher growth and regional and social cohesion. cohesion policy is important to citizens because it brings europe closer to people's daily lives. the flexibility of cohesion and structural policies has been demonstrated in crisis situations and these policies have made a significant contribution to the various national economic promotion and upskilling programmes. european structural policy is a major contribution to the fight against the economic and financial crisis, and is generally aimed at innovation and the removal of obstacles, at encouraging european regions to improve their infrastructure, at increasing the regional innovation potential, and at promoting environmentally sustainable development. the economic and social imbalances in the regions, the geographical disadvantages of certain regions (especially the outermost regions) and the specific structural problems or the need to adapt to new challenges continue to require a broad-based well-funded eu cohesion policy across all european regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of eu budget support to developing countries. it addresses issues related to the impact of budget support, the coherence of eligibility criteria, the ownership of the development agenda, and accompanying measures aimed at strengthening political dialogue. it is important to stress that budget support is a relevant response to acknowledged problems with aid effectiveness, and that it can be an efficient and effective way of supporting national poverty reduction strategies by strengthening governments’ ownership and accountability. i agree with the rapporteur that it also has positive effects on the efficiency of public expenditure and on government capacity, particularly in the field of public finance management. however, we members of the european parliament would like to stress that there is a need to strengthen the commission’s monitoring mechanisms, and parliamentary scrutiny in recipient countries. it is therefore very important to involve parliaments and civil society in the dialogue on anti-poverty policies and in annual reviews of budget support.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the treaty of lisbon makes poverty reduction and eradication the main objective of the european union's development policy. poverty has many dimensions, such as human, economic, social and cultural, gender, environmental and political, and all of them need to be taken into account in eu development policy. i agree that european union support must lead to real qualitative change in partner countries, and that policy coherence is therefore crucial and necessary for delivering high-impact development policy. the european union has so far, in the framework of the partnership agreements, raised human rights issues more frequently than social, economic and cultural rights, but the aid agreements must take account of all these aspects in order to contribute to sustainable social and economic growth in developing countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as eu budget support is only granted to countries that meet the following three eligibility criteria: (a) a well-designed national development policy and strategy, (b) a stability-oriented macroeconomic system and (c) a sound and appropriate programme to improve public financial management. the aim of the document is to continue to support budgets in developing countries and to encourage the commission to assess the relevant indicators before granting aid. the aim of better coordination should be to optimise the allocation of resources, to increase the exchange of good practices and to increase the effectiveness of budget support. the union should recognise the additional benefits of having a high degree of political influence and the potential importance of its actions and use them to ensure that its political influence is proportionate to the financial support provided.
in writing. − it is essential to continue to provide adequate support to the budgets of developing countries, but the commission must carry out a detailed analysis of the relevant indicators in each individual case before granting support. in addition, in addition to financial support, there should be advisory assistance on technocratic public financial management to help promote internal development in partner countries. however, to achieve this objective, it is necessary, in particular, to clarify the criteria for the budget support in order to avoid possible discrepancies or misuse of support. attention is drawn to the fact that budget support must become the main form of assistance from the commission, and therefore a general objective for eu budget support must be set the assistance must ensure democratic accountability and prevent depoliticization, and the development policy measures applied must be in line with the principles of the rule of law and democracy. every effort should be made to ensure that countries with oil and mineral wealth have a transparent tax system to combat poverty and finance their development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond. we members of the european parliament reiterated that, while the responsibility for the planning and development of infrastructure projects lies mainly with the market, the eu has a role in promoting certain projects by awarding them the status of ‘project of european interest’ and providing public financing for some of them. however, it is of utmost importance to establish a clear and transparent methodology for selecting priority projects that meet pressing european needs. ‘projects of european interest’ should not undermine the interests of one member state in order to satisfy the interests of another member state, as has happened in the past. i agree with the rapporteur that the selection of projects of european interest (peis) should be conducted on the basis of objective and transparent criteria, and with the involvement of all stakeholders. it is essential that all peis should contribute to achieving eu energy policy objectives – the completion of the internal market, the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy, and the enhancement of security of supply.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. the treaty of lisbon provides, for the first time in the history of the eu, a concrete legal framework for the development of an eu energy policy, the implementation of which would promote the interconnection of energy networks across national and regional borders between member states, which is necessary to achieve the other objectives of eu energy policy and solidarity, namely the functioning of the energy products market, energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, security of supply and diversification of energy sources and means of supply. the eu's key energy challenges include combating climate change, strengthening energy security and self-sufficiency by reducing overall energy consumption and fossil fuel imports and dependence, diversifying energy suppliers and sources, promoting a competitive internal market for energy products and ensuring access to affordable, sustainable, safe and efficient energy for all. i agree to the swift, proper and full implementation of the existing legislation and to the ensuring of the regulation as required by the third internal energy market package and to the presentation of the necessary new proposals in this area with a view to the establishment of an integrated and competitive european internal energy market by 2014 at the latest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu's energy infrastructure needs to be improved and modernised in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives and to connect an increasing share of renewable energy sources to the mix by 2020. in addition, advanced and large-scale interconnections, interconnections and expansion of gas supply networks should be developed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase security of supply. it is important to note that a common eu approach is needed to improve europe's energy infrastructure, as individual member states cannot achieve this goal alone. it should be noted that the environmental benefits are not necessarily achieved in countries that make the necessary investments, and therefore long-term objectives need to be considered in order to ensure that the energy infrastructure currently planned can last for several decades. i agree with the european parliament's position that the existing directives and the provisions of the so-called third energy internal market package should be used to draw all the necessary conclusions and then to provide the basis for planning and investing in the european grid. better european union financial instruments should also be developed to support the efforts of regional and local authorities to invest in sustainable energy production.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because our focus is on energy infrastructure, which the commission considers to be outdated and poorly connected. they are necessary to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to ensure security of supply and price stability for consumers, and to develop a common energy market that ensures access to energy sources at affordable prices for all businesses and citizens. and above all, solidarity between member states, because it is impossible to talk about security without also talking about solidarity in europe. we faced many pressing issues, including the incredible growth of wind power in the north and baltic sea regions, the huge potential for renewable energy in southern europe and north africa, the problems of large-scale electricity storage, the need to charge electric vehicles, and the transportation and storage of co2 and hydrogen. it is impossible to tackle these problems without envisaging new networks and new links with the eu and with third countries. i think we need to: identify the infrastructure needed; to establish criteria for determining which project should be classified as being of european interest, taking into account the sustainable development of the different regions; ensure that these projects are implemented within a reasonable time frame, by developing ways to resolve the problems of conflicting permitting and licensing procedures in the member states, by ensuring discussion, information and public participation; improve the allocation of funds; secure financing that attracts and encourages private investment.
in writing. − the infrastructure currently used in the eu is technologically outdated, has too few interconnections, and does not ensure an adequate and secure energy supply. this has a significant negative impact on the final consumers, as prices are constantly fluctuating. in this context, continued cooperation at national and european level is essential for the successful completion of the internal energy market, the implementation of infrastructure projects and the elimination of energy islands. only by working together will we be able to implement cross-border projects, to create efficient and smart links between local and regional energy resources and large energy networks. we need to maximise the efficiency of eu funds in implementing priority energy infrastructure projects. in addition, subsidies for energy infrastructure and research and technological development should be allocated on a geographical basis. the priorities for the selection of projects of european interest need to be set in order to achieve the eu's energy and climate change objectives. the implementation of an energy infrastructure project should involve the widest possible public participation at an early stage of development, in order to ensure the widest possible dissemination of information and exchange of good practices. civil society at all levels should be involved in the consultation process. the european oil transport and refining infrastructure must remain competitive, ensuring a secure supply to eu consumers at an acceptable price, as the importance of oil will not change for many years.
in writing. − the crisis has had a huge economic and social cost, including economic stagnation, high unemployment and poverty. the council and the commission are now pursuing a policy of emphasising public financial consolidation restoring the debt and budget deficit criteria of the stability and growth pact. the debate on how to tackle these problems also looks at how to protect the european social model from total collapse. the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises services of general economic interest (sgeis) as an integral part of the european social model and clearly indicates the responsibilities of the member states for the provision of such services, while the european charter of fundamental rights recognises the right of citizens to benefit from the sgeis. provision of high quality universal services such as healthcare, education and childcare, and essential communication services such as transport, energy and telecommunications, to ensure a healthy, active and cohesive society. they are also important for ensuring a higher level of participation in the labour market and for creating a competitive social market economy. i support the call in the report for member states and the commission to coordinate their actions in this area better and to exchange good practices to encourage further modernisation of the cap in different member states. i believe that the establishment of a high-level working group could make a significant contribution to identifying the problems that exist and the possible solutions to them, in particular by identifying the rules of the european single market that have a negative impact on the provision of csr.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that public services, including public social services, are of vital importance to our societies, both economically and socially. they perform a number of minor functions and are one of the main indicators of the quality of human life. indeed, although often not of an economic nature, they make a significant economic contribution to job creation, the promotion of economic activity and the enhancement of purchasing power, as well as to the strengthening of economic, social and territorial cohesion in europe. for all these reasons, i do indeed support the idea in the report that, in this period of economic and financial difficulties for many member states, investment in public and social services should not be reduced, but on the contrary, given their importance and necessity, these services should be further strengthened. the second report raises the problem of how to address the shortcomings identified in the public service legislation, which the european parliament calls on the commission to address as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it proposes the creation of a working group to consider ways of supporting the use of social services by enterprises. the working group could: consider the usefulness of establishing a european ssc monitoring or resource centre, which would collect information from different sources in the member states and enable the exchange of best practice in sscs at national, regional and local levels. to seek broad consensus on ways to address the legal uncertainties and ambiguities surrounding the cfp. i think it is necessary to examine how member states could take into account gender-specific services, in particular counselling and social services for women, and important services that improve the quality of life and equality for women, such as healthcare, in particular sexual and reproductive health services, education or care for dependent people, when defining social services of general interest. it is necessary to promote innovations such as the registers of member states' csis, the pilot scheme for care of older people and the action programmes based on the optional european social services programme. consider also how member states could develop ways of providing assistance at home, including support for older and vulnerable people, provided by both men and women, and reduce the negative impact of employment and pensions on those who care for dependent family members.
in writing. − social services of universal importance are the result of different cultural traditions, which requires a flexible approach, but at the same time, the principle of subsidiarity must be taken into account. social services must be accessible, affordable and of high quality in each member state. it is essential that member states increase employment and growth opportunities in the social, health and education sectors, in order to ensure that eu citizens have decent, non-discriminatory working conditions and access to comprehensive social protection systems. in addition, an effective support mechanism for enterprises providing social services must be established. the public-private partnership agreement, simplified rules and public procurement procedures should be extended. it is important to note that social workers must encourage eu citizens to enter employment, education and economic activity in order to gain independence and meet their needs. i believe that the european ssm monitoring and resource centre will help member states to exchange best practice at national, regional and local levels and will promote more effective territorial cooperation between regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on increasing the impact of eu development policy. eu financial assistance must aim at helping developing countries to become economically independent. this can be achieved by increasing the effectiveness of the eu's development assistance and by fulfilling financial commitments. however, it is also important to help developing countries to build efficient and transparent taxation policies, improve accountability, and strengthen national parliaments’ and civil society organisations’ commitment to the development agenda. in order to obtain the best results, the eu should concentrate on initiatives focused on creating economic growth and involving the private sector in the least-developed countries. coordination between eu aid instruments also has to be improved. those are the main goals, and i urge the european commission and the council to follow the opinion of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. under the lisbon treaty, the main objective of eu development policy is to reduce and eradicate poverty. the european consensus on development reaffirms the eu's commitment to eradicating poverty and achieving the millennium development goals, and to adhering to principles such as responsibility and partnership, aid effectiveness and policy coherence for development, which remain of paramount importance and must be guided by the objective of maximising the impact of eu development aid. i agree that european country strategies should be developed to better coordinate the actions of the commission and the member states. the implementation of eu development policy should thus aim at removing obstacles to development, such as dumping of agricultural products, the illicit debt burden, capital flight and unfair trade, and at creating an international environment conducive to the fight against poverty, the guarantee of adequate income and livelihoods, and the enjoyment of fundamental human rights, including social and economic rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the recent period of increasing poverty and social exclusion around the world, it is high time to examine the european union's development policy. indeed, eu development policy should aim to remove obstacles to development such as agricultural dumping, the illicit debt burden, capital flight and unfair trade, and to create an international environment conducive to the fight against poverty, the guarantee of adequate income and livelihoods, and the enjoyment of fundamental human rights, including social and economic rights. it is also necessary to combat inequalities, including gender inequalities, as gender equality, the political and economic empowerment of women and the enjoyment of women's human rights play a major role in reducing poverty and ensuring sustainable development. it is equally important to raise public awareness and to work towards improving transparency of aid expenditure, strengthening the independent dissemination of evaluation research results and applying stricter sanctions to participants if they are found to have misappropriated development aid funds. it should also be stressed that any policy to promote economic growth cannot be pursued without a policy to promote social and environmental standards and to implement social protection measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because it proposes to maintain the same funding through new instruments or by seeking new ways. it would also define its vision, ambitions, objectives and appropriate means. some of the issues mentioned in the commission's green paper on a development policy that supports inclusive and sustainable development. i welcome the efforts to develop european country strategy papers to better coordinate the actions of the commission and the member states. the programming process should ensure the implementation of the aid effectiveness agenda and respect parliament's right to exercise democratic control as defined in article 290 of the treaty of lisbon. under the lisbon treaty, the main objective of eu development policy is to reduce and eradicate poverty. as the european consensus on development reaffirms the eu's commitment to poverty eradication and to the achievement of the mdgs, principles such as responsibility and partnership, aid effectiveness and policy coherence for development remain of particular importance and must be guided by in order to maximise the impact of eu development aid. poverty has many dimensions, not only economic but also human, social and cultural, political, protection, environmental, and these must be taken into account in the eu's development policy.
in writing. − it is essential that the european union's development policy instruments are implemented promptly and properly. in the light of the recent financial crisis and its negative consequences in the european union and worldwide, it is essential to maintain the same eu funding, but with new instruments and methods of financing. we must also define our specific objectives, vision, ambitions and the appropriate measures, especially where inclusive and sustainable development is concerned. i think that the developed world needs to take a leadership role in creating a low-carbon global economy. only by implementing these policies will we be in a position to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. it is essential that member states take appropriate action to reduce emissions. in order to better coordinate the actions of the commission and the member states in this area, european country strategy papers and an effective implementation of the aid effectiveness agenda should be developed and the right of democratic oversight of the european parliament should be ensured.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the eu reviews its vision, its ambitions and the relevant measures before deciding on the place of development aid in the future multiannual financial framework (mff). in helping others, we must not forget ourselves. most of the areas mentioned in the report - corruption, poverty, lack of good governance - also require improvement in lithuania. in its latest annual report, transparency international gave lithuania a 5 out of 10 for its efforts in fighting corruption, ranking it 46th in the world behind costa rica, puerto rico and botswana, respectively. more efforts are needed to reduce income inequality, both in lithuania and in the developing world. this would significantly increase the impact of eu aid and would make poverty a more effective target. i met with the rapporteur who said that the ec green paper on development policy does not pay enough attention to poverty. poverty is not only an economic phenomenon, it is also a social, political and cultural deprivation. eu development aid must address this. and above all, eu development aid must be based on the values of human rights and democracy. it must also be transparent a modern european development policy requires the understanding and involvement of european citizens.
the debate on the new financial perspective is taking place at a very difficult time both in the european union and in the member states. when it is necessary to go beyond the current problems and invest heavily in other policies whose added value will be felt comparatively slowly. i think that there will be a lot of debate on the proposed financial perspective, both in parliament and between the member states and the various institutions, but i would like to stress that the commission has taken account of many of the european parliament's proposals in its draft. in particular, i would like to mention that an important step has been taken to secure funding for important energy and transport projects across europe, to revise agricultural policy and make it fairer and more transparent. the question of financing the european union budget also remains a key one, with new challenges and huge financial requirements. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget for the european union.
in writing. the main principle to be implemented by changing the current procedure for providing food information to consumers the right of the consumer to receive information about the food and to be able to make a decision on the purchase or consumption of the food on the basis of that information. the adoption of a food information decision should also reduce consumer complaints about misleading food labels. it is true that the provision of information to the consumer does not eliminate the risk of going to the other extreme - too much information. on the one hand, too much information would make it difficult for the consumer to become a nutritionist, on the other hand, providing a lot of information (and in a readable font) would require a lot of space, which would mean an increase in packaging and containers (consumers often complain that they have to buy a product in large packages they do not need), and therefore an increase in packaging waste, and the costs of packaging would inevitably be passed on to the consumer. since the nutritional value of the product and the content of the constituents (carbohydrates, fats, proteins, salt, sugar) will be indicated, what allergens could be the risk of the use of one or another selected product. strict information requirements would be a significant burden, in particular for small traders who sell unpackaged, self-cooked or self-manufactured products. on the other hand, it is good that these traders are exempted and that unpackaged food sold will not be required to be labelled.
in writing. i congratulate our neighbour poland on the start of its first presidency of the european union. poland, which has taken over the presidency from hungary, will have a formidable task to find a solution to an ambitious agreement on the new financial perspective for 2014-2020. today's europe is full of challenges and opportunities, including the future of energy, the defence of the free movement of people in the schengen area and the development of the eastern european neighbourhood policy, and i therefore support poland's key priorities in the field of energy security and the strong focus on the eastern partnership of the european union. i would like to point out that it is high time to move the maternity leave directive, which is not supported by the majority of member states, from the dead-end. the prospects for the anti-discrimination directive, which is still blocked in the council, are also unclear. these acts are of great relevance to all the people of europe and their future must be decided as soon as possible. i would also urge the presidency to pay more attention to the modernisation of higher education, which has an impact on youth employment. i am pleased that poland is planning to hold a debate on the high level of unemployment in europe, especially among the elderly, in its programme. but at the same time i would like to urge the presidency not only to organise seminars and conferences on these important issues, but also to take concrete measures both on the elderly and on the employment opportunities for young people. i therefore wish poland a successful presidency over the next six months in improving the situation of the people of europe and ensuring their rights and freedoms.
recognising that the financial crisis has led to an economic and social crisis, which can lead to a very serious political crisis, we should take much more decisive action to tackle unemployment and reduce social exclusion in the member states. i support the provision proposed in the resolution to call on the commission to carry out a rigorous financial audit of all member states in order to establish their actual financial situation and this should be done as soon as possible rather than in a year or two, as the situation is changing much faster than eurostat is able to summarise it. if we really want to build public confidence and trust in the potential of the europe 2020 programme, we should not only create highly favourable incentives and mechanisms, but also significantly reduce bureaucracy by simplifying many procedures. and another thing: i think that the commission should draw up a package of legislation as soon as possible to limit the ability of monopolies to raise unjustifiably the prices of raw materials, foodstuffs and services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the purpose of this decision of the european parliament and of the council is to ensure the legal specificity of the list of travel documents. this decision should also have added value, namely that it should ensure the security of border guards authorised to check travel documents at the external borders. otherwise, the purpose of the draft proposal would be meaningless and the list of travel documents should therefore be legally binding. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposed wording would not only respect the competence of the member states to recognise travel documents, but also ensure legal certainty after the expiry of the period of time, which could indeed be longer than the commission proposes. i also agree that, in the long term, an online database should be created to store all the specimens of travel documents, in order to make it easier for border control services and consular staff to check a specific travel document. it is important to note that the purpose of the travel document list is twofold. this means that the list can be used by border control authorities to determine whether a particular travel document is considered to be suitable for crossing the external border or by consular staff to check whether a particular travel document is recognised by the member states and whether it can be affixed with a visa.
in writing. - i have approved the document because, as provided for in the 1985 convention implementing the schengen agreement, a guide to travel documents entitling the holder to cross external borders and to which a visa may be affixed has been drawn up. however, these decisions are outdated and need to be adapted to the current eu institutional and legal framework. the purpose of the travel document list is twofold. on the one hand, it is possible for border control authorities to determine on the basis of that list whether a particular travel document is considered to be suitable for crossing the external border. on the other hand, it allows consular staff to check whether a specific travel document is recognised by the member states and whether it is capable of being stamped with a visa. this decision establishes a list of travel documents entitling the holder to cross the external borders and on which a visa may be affixed, and the mechanism for drawing up such a list. this decision applies to travel documents such as national passports (ordinary, diplomatic or service and official or special passports), temporary travel documents, travel documents for refugees and stateless persons, travel documents issued by international organisations or laissez-passer. this decision does not affect the competence of the member states to recognise travel documents.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which establishes a list of travel documents entitling the holder to cross the external borders and on which a visa may be affixed, and the mechanism for drawing up this list. in order to allow border control services and consulates to carry out their functions properly, the travel document guide needs to be updated and aligned with the current eu institutional and legal framework. it is essential that the recognition of travel documents remains a matter for each member state and is not affected by this decision. i believe that the three-month time limit within which states must communicate their position on the recognition of travel documents is appropriate and sufficient. in order to combat the use of false identity documents more effectively, the commission should draw up a list of known false and masked passports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on broadband in europe: investing in digital-led growth. with this document, we, the members of the european parliament, call for the digital divide to be bridged and for broadband access to be provided throughout the eu in order to provide european added value, especially in remote and rural areas, in order to ensure social and territorial cohesion. ensuring effective eu-wide broadband provision is crucial to delivering the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, in order to promote fast, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion-based economic growth, which will improve employment, strengthen european competitiveness and facilitate research and innovation. it is essential that broadband enables all regions, cities, municipalities and groups of society to access the digital space, enabling them to benefit from new digital technologies for public services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, as ensuring effective broadband services across the eu is crucial to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, in order to promote fast, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesive growth, which will improve employment, strengthen european competitiveness, create a more favourable environment for research and innovation, and enable all regions, cities, municipalities and groups of society to access the digital space by enabling them to benefit from new digital technologies for public services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because we need to ensure the efficient provision of broadband services throughout europe. it is also essential that sufficient investment is made in digital-led growth. the commission and the member states to develop european and national programmes to enable and finance broadband access for all eu citizens at speeds of at least 30 mbps and access for all training and research institutions to broadband infrastructure by 2015 the implementation of these measures would contribute to rapid, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion economic growth. we must do everything we can to ensure that the eu is a world leader in ict infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on a comprehensive approach to the protection of personal data in the european union. this is an important document in which the european parliament advocates the strengthening of the existing rules on the protection of personal data, the introduction of new principles and measures and the maintenance of a consistent and high standard of data protection, in compliance with the binding charter of fundamental rights, in particular article 8 thereof. it is important that every person should at all times know who, what, when, for what purpose and for how long they are storing data and how they are processed, and should have the possibility to delete, rectify or block data in a non-bureaucratic way and be informed of any unlawful use of data or breach of data security. i agree with the rapporteur that children and minors need to be particularly protected, inter alia, in view of the increased use of the internet and digital content by children. media literacy should be an important part of formal education in order to teach children and minors to behave responsibly in an online environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because breaches of data protection provisions can seriously threaten the fundamental rights of individuals and the values of the member states, and the european union and the member states must take effective measures to combat such breaches. in addition, such breaches create a lack of trust among the public, which reduces the ability to properly apply new technologies, and misuse and abuse of personal data should be punishable by appropriate, strict and dissuasive sanctions, including criminal sanctions. the european commission should establish a mandatory personal data breach notification system and extend it to sectors other than telecommunications, and ensure that it does not become a routine system for warning of various breaches, but for warning of breaches that may adversely affect an individual. it is also necessary to ensure that all breaches are, without exception, recorded and made available to data protection authorities or other relevant authorities for investigation and evaluation, thus ensuring a level playing field and protection for all persons. it is essential to recognise the need to protect vulnerable persons, in particular children, in particular by imposing a mandatory requirement for a high level of data protection and by implementing appropriate specific measures for the protection of data of such persons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the ep very much welcomes and supports the commission communication 'a comprehensive approach to the protection of personal data in the european union' and the fact that it focuses on strengthening the existing regime, proposing new principles and measures and ensuring consistent and high standards of data protection under the new system proposed to be applied after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the principles and standards set out in directive 95/46/ec are a good starting point and should be further developed, extended and implemented. the ep recognises that technological developments have, on the one hand, created new threats to the protection of personal data and, on the other hand, have led to a significant increase in the use of information technology for everyday and generally harmless purposes, and that these developments require a thorough assessment of the existing data protection rules in order to ensure that: the rules continue to ensure a high level of protection; the rules strike an appropriate balance between the right to the protection of personal data and the right to freedom of expression and information; and the application of these rules does not unnecessarily create obstacles to the everyday processing of personal data, which is generally harmless.
in writing. − protection of personal data one of the human rights to privacy enshrined in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. attention should be drawn to the fact that technological developments pose new threats to the protection of personal data. we must make every effort to ensure the highest level of data protection and the proper implementation of the right to the protection of personal data. in addition, the revised data regime should reduce the bureaucratic and financial burden. the obligations of controllers in relation to the provisions on information on data subjects need to be increased in order to ensure proper compliance with the requirements of data protection legislation. it is also necessary to regulate the processing of non-public data more strictly and to strengthen the guarantees attached to it.
in writing. − colleagues, privacy and security are of paramount importance to all people. citizens cannot be forced to choose between freedom and security. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to modernise data protection laws to meet the privacy challenges posed by new technologies. but the problem is much bigger than the report. in some eu countries, including lithuania, the problem is not only obsolete legislation but also enforcement. article 22 of the republic of lithuania prohibits interference with a person's personal correspondence or life. according to a report published in the american magazine a few months ago, in 2010, the lithuanian state data protection inspectorate investigated 270 allegations of arbitrary intrusion into privacy by government officials or companies. in most complaints, individuals claimed that their personal data, such as their personal identification code, had been collected or used by government agencies without any legal basis or explanation. trust has to be restored. it is important that citizens know what is happening with their data. european leaders must take appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure protection against data loss or unauthorised access. it's a matter of honor and dignity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on consumer information on foodstuffs. the free movement of safe food is a fundamental element of the internal market, important for the health and well-being of the population and for its social and economic interests. with this resolution, we, the members of the european parliament, seek to take account of the interests of the internal market, the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and the interests of citizens by requiring food labelling to be clear, understandable and legible. people need to know what they are eating, where it is made and what it is made of. the labelling of foodstuffs must be easily recognisable, understandable and legible to the consumer. i think it is appropriate and right to ensure that consumers have access to an impartial information provider in the member states to find out about individual nutritional issues. member states should therefore set up appropriate telephone helplines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document as it aims to further regulate the information to be provided to consumers on food labels. for the purposes of this regulation, the indication on the label of the name of the food business operator, the name of the establishment or the address shall not be considered as an indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of the food. food labels should be clear and understandable to help consumers who want to make informed food and nutrition choices. studies have shown that good legibility is important to increase the likelihood that labelling information will have an impact on the persons reading it and that illegible product information is one of the main reasons for consumer dissatisfaction with food labels. a comprehensive approach should therefore be adopted to take into account all aspects related to legibility, including font, colour and contrast.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation as there is a need to strengthen the requirements for food labelling. in particular, the functioning of the internal market will be improved and the free movement of goods will be facilitated. in addition, clear, understandable and readable information will be provided to consumers. it is very important that the food label contains the information that is necessary to know in order to make informed purchasing decisions. it should be noted that the strict labelling requirements should be exempted for micro-enterprises, in particular those producing handicrafts. i think it is appropriate to provide for a transitional period for the new labelling requirements to take effect. this will ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and reduce packaging waste.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the cross-border exchange of information on road-safety-related traffic offences. the resolution is aimed at helping to ensure more safety on european roads and so reduce the number of casualties. the basis of cross-border law enforcement is a smooth data exchange among member states. dangerous traffic offences covered under these provisions include speeding, not wearing a seat belt, not stopping at a red light and drink-driving. the list of offences has been expanded to cover crimes such as driving under the influence of drugs and using mobile phones at the wheel. i strongly believe that this resolution will make a significant contribution to ensuring road safety in the member states and urge the council to follow the european parliament’s ambitious recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the main objective of the union's transport policy is to improve road safety. the union shall implement a policy to improve road safety aimed at reducing the number of fatalities, injuries and material damage. an important aspect of this policy is the enforcement of the penalties for continuous infringements of the road traffic rules, when committed within the union and posing a serious risk to road safety. the enforcement of sanctions fines for certain road traffic offences is often not guaranteed if those offences are committed in a vehicle registered in a member state other than the member state of the offence, or in another member state. this directive aims to ensure that in such cases the effectiveness of the investigation of road safety infringements is ensured. this directive also aims to ensure a high level of protection for all road users in the union by facilitating the exchange of information at cross-border level on road safety related traffic offences and thus ensuring the application of sanctions for offences committed in a member state other than the member state of the offence in which the vehicle is registered.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legal recommendation, which facilitates the exchange of information at cross-border level on road safety violations, as it will help to improve road safety, harmonise road safety policies, enforcement procedures at eu level. i think that there should be more consistency in the way controls and technical equipment are harmonised between member states. the implementation of the provisions of this directive will improve consumer information on the consequences of non-compliance with the road traffic rules when travelling in another member state and will enable the member state authorities to carry out their functions more quickly and efficiently. it should be noted that in all cases, the exchange of data between member states must ensure the protection of fundamental rights of the individual and the protection of personal data.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that road traffic offences should not go unpunished, whether they are committed in one's own country or in another eu country. drivers who have moved to another country often have less respect for speed limits and other traffic rules. although the number of road deaths has decreased over the last decade, accidents, especially in the baltic states, are still too many. the feeling of impunity when driving abroad does not make things any better. i regret that denmark, ireland and the united kingdom have not yet shown their willingness to join this agreement. eu countries are obliged to ensure the protection of personal data in the exchange of information. however, concerns that this information may be misused should not delay the introduction of a data exchange system.
in writing. − i abstained in this vote because the ep does not support the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework 2007-13. the council shall adopt the regulation on the multiannual financial framework after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. the tfeu requires that all three institutions work together to find a solution through the procedures for adopting the financial programme. however, as the existing legal instrument establishing the needs of the multiannual financial framework needs to be amended following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the commission presented the so-called lisbon package, which includes a proposal for a council regulation establishing a multiannual financial framework for 2007-13, a draft interinstitutional agreement on cooperation in budgetary matters and a proposal to amend the financial regulation. the council adopted the commission proposal and asked the european parliament to give its consent to the proposal without entering into any negotiations with the european parliament with a view to agreeing on a common position.
in writing. − it is essential that the european parliament and the council agree, by means of mutual negotiations, on a common position on the draft regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework 2007-13. the council may not ignore or disregard parliament's position on the matter under consideration. the proposal to parliament provides for a certain degree of flexibility, but in general the proposal for a multiannual financial framework is not sufficient to cover the needs of the member states. in view of the increased demand and the reduced margin, as well as the increased use of the flexibility instruments provided for under the interinstitutional agreement, it is necessary to provide for greater flexibility. it should be noted that the proposal provides for much less flexibility than is allowed under the current interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission and the council to provide greater flexibility for the eu's multiannual financial framework, which was one of the main obstacles to overcoming the consequences of the economic crisis in europe, especially with regard to emergency aid. the eu must face up to increasing competition in the world and new challenges such as energy security. the eu's global competitiveness will be enhanced by ensuring fair competition between member states. cohesion policy must therefore be refined to address the economic and social disparities existing between member states. the agricultural policy must be established and direct payments to farmers must be balanced. it is unacceptable that, for example, greek farmers continue to receive three to four times more aid than latvians. i would also like to see more money in the eu budget to support business. the draft regulation submitted does not provide the necessary flexibility in the eu budget, nor does it provide for additional funding for the implementation of common political and economic priorities. this resolution rejects the draft financial framework submitted, which is why i have supported it.
in writing. − the european commission has a key role to play in shaping the future of the eu and its future work programme. the europe strategy sets out a number of ambitious objectives in key eu policy areas which will need to be properly reflected in the future financial perspective. an open and constructive dialogue and cooperation on the objectives, scope and direction of the union's multiannual financial framework (mff) and the reform of its revenue system, including a conference on own resources involving members of the european parliament and national parliaments, should be initiated at eu level. in the light of the commitments made in the field of energy and the objective of achieving a single energy market by 2014, i support the call for the commission to monitor the implementation of eu legislation in the fields of energy and energy efficiency and to adopt without delay the appropriate implementing measures and to submit any new proposals needed to achieve these objectives. another major challenge - the future cap - is to be closely aligned with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. we expect the commission's forthcoming proposals for cap reform to be guided by the principle of sustainability, in order to ensure the long-term viability of european food production, while improving farmers' competitiveness, fairly distributing direct payments and promoting rural development, preserving the diversity of farming methods and production and avoiding red tape.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the european commission should continue its work and collaborate with the european parliament and the council in improving the quality of legislation. i agree with parliament that it is essential to submit as soon as possible a proposal for a european social fund a key instrument to combat unemployment and social inequalities and to reduce poverty by improving education and vocational training. more attention should also be paid to the youth unemployment problem, which is of great concern, and to the problem of early school leavers. it is regrettable that the commission has still not put forward a legislative proposal to combat violence against women under a framework comprising a comprehensive strategy and an appropriate harmonisation of sanctions. there is also a lack of proposals and initiatives in the area of public health. in addition, new multiannual programmes in the fields of education, culture, sport and citizenship should be considered as important, as they are crucial for the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and for preserving the eu's multicultural and multilingual diversity. it is essential to take actions and measures based on an appropriate and effective budgetary framework to ensure that these effective programmes continue to meet the needs of european society beyond 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the european commission has a key role to play in shaping the future of the eu and should use its future work programme to promote the union's objectives and values, to strengthen its responsibility for the eu project, to bring the eu out of the crisis and to ensure its representation and honourable positions in the world. it is important for us to restore growth today to create jobs. continue to implement the citizens' agenda: freedom, security and justice. and also to increase our influence on the world stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because in 1997-98 bse reached epidemic levels in the european union as a result of the feeding of bse-infected processed animal protein (pgb) to cattle. in response to the bse epidemic in the eu, regulation (ec) no 999/2001 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies established for the first time a common legal framework for the control and prevention of tse and bse. the regulation consolidates all previous eu legislation governing the tse. since the date of adoption, the regulation has been amended several times, modified or introduced several additional measures to further eradicate, control or monitor tse. other measures contribute to ensuring full security and the tse monitoring regime. communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council of 16 july 2010 second action plan to combat tse. the ep welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the ep stresses, however, the importance of ensuring that the significant reduction in bse cases in the eu does not lead to a softening of the tse measures or a weakening of the eu's strict control and monitoring mechanisms; notes that the past and current tse legislation have contributed to the elimination of tse in the eu.
in writing. − infectious spongiform encephalopathies (ises) are caused by the transfer of the causative agent prion, which is a pathological form of protein. this disease is very dangerous to humans and animals. although the number of cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) has decreased in the european union in recent years, it is essential to maintain the same level of control and strict monitoring mechanisms for transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and related food and feed. we must be constantly prepared to prevent an outbreak of this disease throughout the eu. i think that the commission should encourage the silos which are being set up to create urgent diagnostic tests for bse. it is also essential that the commission reassesses the lower limit values for dioxin in fishmeal. it should be noted that the currently allowed limit is too high because of the risks to human and animal health. in this context, i support the resolution on the implementation and prospects of eu legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and related controls on food and feed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on aviation security, with a special focus on security scanners. the resolution lays down the conditions for the use of body scanners at airport check-ins and calls for a definitive end to the ban on carrying liquids in 2013. it is very important to stress that the new generation of scanners fulfil parliament’s demands for the protection of human rights, as, rather than showing a human body, they display a standard image that simply indicates if the passenger is carrying anything dangerous or not. the european parliament rejected the use of body scanners in 2008 because there were no guarantees on the respect of passenger privacy. developments in the technology of the scanners have overcome doubts regarding fundamental rights or risks for human health due to frequent exposure to x-ray technologies. i support the rapporteur on the issue of liquids, aerosols and gels in passengers’ hand luggage. the european commission must quickly clarify the current ambiguous situation and, in any case, transform the ban on carrying liquids into an obligation to screen them from 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree with the rapporteur that an integrated approach to aviation security is needed, applying the principle of a single security check, so that passengers, baggage and cargo arriving at one eu airport from other eu airports do not have to be re-checked. in the communication, the european parliament calls on the commission to propose the inclusion of body scanners, which should help speed up screening at airports and reduce inconvenience to passengers, in the list of permitted screening methods. i agree that appropriate rules for the use of body scanners and common minimum standards should be included. i also consider that an impact assessment is necessary before the inclusion of body scanners in the list, which would confirm that the devices do not pose a risk to the health, personal data, dignity and privacy of passengers. the use of body scanners should be governed by common eu rules, procedures and standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because while ensuring the security of air transport in the fight against terrorist attacks is undoubtedly essential, we must also examine the impact of the measures designed to ensure such security on our health, fundamental rights and freedoms, privacy and dignity. the european parliament's task is therefore to examine fully the measures adopted and, if necessary, to propose others to prevent risks. in addition, international coordination of aviation security measures is necessary to ensure a high level of protection and to avoid the restrictions and additional costs of multiple screening of passengers. it is important to note that the introduction of new technical measures aimed at achieving a high level of security at airports is also essential to establish the boundaries between human rights and security itself, since those measures concern not only the protection of citizens but also their impact on their rights and freedoms. it is also necessary to ensure that those technical security measures are genuinely safe, effective and reasonable. in order to protect the identity of passengers and to ensure that they cannot be identified by any body image, all body scanners should use identifiable body images. therefore, once member states have installed body scanners, they must comply with the minimum standards and requirements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document as it deals with the issue of body scanners, the decisions taken on liquids, aerosols and gels and the security measures applied to cargo and mail. eu aviation security legislation provides for a list of screening methods and technologies from which member states and/or airports have to choose, and existing legislation will need to be amended to include body scanners in this list (without prejudice to the possibility of installing body scanners during a trial period or as a more stringent security measure). supports the implementation of harmonised rules across the european union governing the conditions of use of body scanners and common quality standards for detection.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as we need to ensure civil aviation safety at eu level, based on an integrated approach to aviation safety and applying the principle of a single safety check. i believe that body scanners can only be included in the list of acceptable methods of testing after a thorough scientifically based impact assessment has been carried out by an independent body. this assessment shall take into account the direct and delayed effects and the long-term cumulative effects on human health, risks to personal data, personal dignity and privacy. in addition, common eu rules for the use of scanners, common minimum standards and procedures should be developed. only by implementing these measures will the health of passengers, crew, seamen and security staff be adequately protected and their fundamental rights and interests protected. it is also essential to ensure that the random selection of passengers for body scanners is not based on discriminatory criteria. it should be noted that i do not agree with the claim that the quality of detection of objects, especially non-metallic and liquid, by body scanners is superior to that of metal detectors, until this has been scientifically proven.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on women and business leadership aimed at increasing access to top jobs for competent women. we, the members of the european parliament, have required companies to take daring measures to increase women’s participation on boards of directors. the new legislation ought to include quotas in order to increase female representation in corporate management bodies: 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020, while taking account of the member states’ responsibilities and of their economic, structural (i.e. company size), legal and regional specificities. it is important to further raise awareness among social partners, companies, governments and public opinion on the necessity of enhanced representation of women on boards, and to inform them of the specific targets that need to be reached. i welcome the commission’s strong support for this process and its stated aim of proposing binding measures on companies if voluntary measures fail to increase women’s representation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is vital to help competent and qualified women to take up positions that are currently difficult for them to access. as regards gender equality in business, it is worth noting that only 3% of company directors are women, as they face discrimination and barriers to advancing their careers and reaching leadership. the proposed quota system is designed to ensure that companies do not take any action or make any changes to improve gender equality in their business, and therefore the quota system is intended to be enshrined in legislation. in addition, the european commission has already announced that it will present legislation to ensure that companies take effective measures to ensure equal representation of women and men on boards if this is not achieved through self-regulation in the next 12 months. the commission plans to propose european legislation in 2012 if companies do not voluntarily increase the number of women on company boards to 30% by 2015 and to 40% by 2020. the european parliament calls on the commission to present an action plan setting out specific, measurable and achievable objectives to ensure a balance of representation in all sizes of enterprises and calls on the commission to draw up specific guidelines for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − i agree with the view that in politics, both in the eu and in the member states, as well as in business, there is a need to remove barriers to women's entry into the labour market, especially in management positions, and to give women equal opportunities to take up responsible positions, in order to ensure the effective use of all available resources, to optimise the uptake of women's skills and good qualities and to make the best use of the human potential of the european union and to defend the eu's core values, taking into account that equality is a fundamental principle. i abstained, as the report stresses that if the measures taken by companies and member states prove insufficient, legislative measures, including quotas, should be proposed by 2012 to help increase the number of women in management positions to 30% by 2015 and to 40% by 2020, taking into account the competences of the member states and the specificities of the economy, structure (size of companies), law and regions. i do not think it is logical to set quotas in the business sector.
in writing. − first, when appointing people to management positions, companies must first take into account and assess their competence, knowledge and experience. i believe that requiring companies to increase the number of women on management boards to a certain number will not be effective and efficient, and that business entities may suffer certain losses as a result of such an imperative requirement, especially in terms of staff competence. furthermore, i do not consider that good economic performance and competitiveness depend on the gender of the head of the company. we must do everything possible to ensure that women are not discriminated against. all obstacles to their integration into the labour market, in particular in management positions, must be removed. women must be guaranteed equal pay. in addition, member states should develop initiatives at national level to ensure fair sharing of family responsibilities and to reduce the gender pay gap.
in writing. − the report notes with concern that only 3% of the eu's largest companies are headed by women, and that women make up 10% of the board. i agree that we need to help qualified and competent women to pursue careers and to reach high positions. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for change, and sets out the way forward, by stimulating debate at both national and eu level. companies need a practical model to promote women's participation in the board, with objectives and a defined timeframe for their implementation. i agree with the commission that women should make up 30% of board seats by 2015 and 40% five years later. the proportionate representation of men and women on boards should be a priority for companies and the eu could set an example for the world in this regard.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, women's rights are human rights, whether on the website or in the offices of the chairmen of the boards. it is impossible to imagine a fully democratic society without the participation of women. democracy cannot exist if some members of society are not equally respected and protected from abuse - this applies to women as well as to other discriminated groups. this report focuses on the representation of women on the boards of medium-sized and large companies. but the issue is much broader, especially in lithuania. according to eurostat, more than 91% of lithuanian women have completed secondary and higher education - the highest rate in the eu. at the same time, less than 17% of lithuanians hold the position of chairperson of the board of directors, and only 18% of them are elected to parliament, and there are almost no women university rectors at all. it's not enough to have a woman president. a rapid response is needed to prevent talent and skills from leaking into the eu workforce. the gender pay gap needs to be reduced in lithuania and across the eu. in lithuania, women often earn 20% less than men for the same job. the eu must demonstrate that fundamental rights apply to all citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the report entitled ‘financial, economic and social crisis: measures and initiatives to be taken’. we, the members of the european parliament, call for ‘more europe’: a ‘smarter’ more efficient and more united eu with clearly defined and commonly agreed goals, to which all member states should clearly commit and which should be supported by ambitious financial means. it is true that existing vulnerabilities in the eu’s capacity to respond to the crisis derive from the lack of adequate european instruments or their inappropriate use. the main prerequisites for europe’s recovery are competitiveness and sound finances in member states. innovation, the internal market and the further opening-up of economies and markets are the main domains of european action. i agree with the rapporteur in that, if europe is to succeed in delivering the necessary answers to the crisis, concrete strategic action needs to be taken at european level to bring additional benefits for citizens, member states and the union. the eu needs to be able to achieve more with less, and the prioritisation of eu spending should help bring about competitive, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i voted for this. the financial and economic crisis has led to the loss of 23 million jobs among the economically active population (9.6% of the total), a 21% rise in youth unemployment and 17% of eu citizens at risk of poverty. the crisis has clearly demonstrated the need for a transition to a genuine economic governance of the european union, consisting of systematic policies to ensure sustainable growth, stable and quality employment, fiscal discipline, the correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, the competitiveness and efficiency of the european economy and stronger regulation and monitoring of financial markets, as well as an appropriate response to the financial crisis. i agree with the observation in the report that credit rating agencies have significantly contributed to the worsening of the financial crisis by giving structured finance instruments incorrect ratings that should have been downgraded. i believe that the dependence on external credit ratings must be reduced and that the eu must set up its own credit rating agency as soon as possible, which will allow the member states' economies to be assessed objectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it seeks a transparent audit of public debt in order to identify the origin of the debt and to find out who are the main holders of debt securities and what their amounts are. the sovereign debt crisis has exposed the dangers of imbalances within europe. i believe that there is a need for the european union to act as one, to develop much closer coordination of fiscal policies and, where appropriate, a common policy with a sufficient eu budget partly financed by its own resources, and to implement appropriate provisions for crisis management and economic convergence.
in writing. − we must act as one for the benefit of the european union as a whole and each of its member states. each state must ensure that the country has good business conditions and that the public is well-behaved. the member states must strive and act to reduce as rapidly as possible the material well-being gap with the european average. we need to increase employment, reduce social exclusion. the european union's financial, knowledge, intellectual and capacity resources must be fully mobilised to tackle unemployment and emigration. decisions on job creation and the promotion of employers who create them can no longer be delayed. we must support not only foreign firms investing in the eu, but also local employers creating new jobs. high labour costs are one of the most serious obstacles to new business creation and employment growth. lower taxation of labour would stimulate investment. it is also essential to increase investment in research and experimental development. another problem requiring urgent action is the volatility of agricultural and food prices. we need to reduce the tax and administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. pensions must meet people's needs and enable people in work to start saving for their future pension today.
mr president, it looks as if parliament has recently begun a thought process on the frozen war between armenia and azerbaijan. for too long we have buried our heads in the sand, washing our hands of the affair by means of the minsk group, and repeating happily that fruitless dialogue lasting 20 years is better than war. the reality is that military force continues to be used. the cancer of the world is there and this illness continues to spread when the lands are occupied by foreign forces and when an enemy is not stopped from carrying out sniper killings. we should therefore at least stop kidding ourselves here; ‘to act or not to act’, that is our question. all of our resolutions will be fruitless if they do not concern the realities of the occupied territories of azerbaijan, all expelled people, and all the problems of communication with nagorno-karabakh and the nakhichevan region. we must fully understand what is at stake and have a serious talk with russia about its role there as actor and stage manager.
the first task for all of us is to get the citizens of the european union interested in european issues. over the years, a number of significant steps have been taken to improve the various electoral systems, and the additional list for elections to the european parliament will hopefully help to involve our citizens more actively in the electoral process. however, the european parliament itself has not yet fully fulfilled its obligations under the treaties of paris and rome, such as the unification of the electoral procedure in the member states and the right of individual candidates to stand as candidates, and other problematic issues. i think we should also take account of the shortcomings of the current system, as expressed by the osce, which do not allow the european parliament to fully implement the principles of democracy and do not encourage our citizens to participate actively in elections, simply because they are disappointed with the long-running reform.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to take measures to adapt the working environment to the needs of older people, to ensure health care for all older people and to provide them with the necessary social support. sadly, many older ones experience isolation in their old age. moreover, if older people are to remain in the labour market for longer, for example because of the extension of the retirement age, it is necessary to take concrete measures to provide them with better employment opportunities, as this is the only way to eliminate the causes of poverty in this age group. unfortunately, there are still many concerns that older people may become too much of a burden for younger people of working age, and this may lead to tensions between generations. it is vital, therefore, to overcome such a viewpoint and to remember the great benefit that older ones bring to the world today and can bring to the world in the future. active ageing is also an effective way of combating poverty among older people. it must be clear to society and the economy that older people are not a burden but an asset because of their experience, work and knowledge gained during their lifetime. the european year 2012 should therefore be the guiding light for these changes in europe, as the proportion of older people in europe is increasing and promoting healthy ageing is more important than ever.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it aims to designate 2012 as the european year of active ageing and to allocate money from the eu budget to this end. eurostat demographic projections show a decrease of around 6,8% in the working age population in 2030. thus, only two persons of working age (15-64 years) will have to support one retired person (over 65 years), compared to the current ratio of four persons to one. the eu will thus experience a large relative increase in the number of older people compared to a large decline in the number of people under 50 years of age, and this may increase pressure on national budgets and pension systems, social and care services. in addition, old age is still often associated with illness and dependency on others, and older people may feel unnecessary in the labour market, in family life and in community life. the proposed active ageing year should encourage and support the efforts of member states, their regional and local authorities, social partners and civil society to promote active ageing and to focus more on the generational potential of people approaching 60 years of age and older people. the european year would thus provide a framework for informing the public, identifying and disseminating good practice and, in particular, encouraging legislators and stakeholders at all levels to promote active ageing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because ageing is a problem facing the whole of european society and all its generations. the european year for active ageing 2012 will build a sustainable culture of active ageing in europe, based on a multi-age society and generational solidarity. the efforts of member states, their regional and local authorities, social partners and civil society to promote active ageing will thus be encouraged and supported. it will also facilitate active ageing and ageing with the preservation of the vitality and dignity of all persons. it should be noted that the objectives to be achieved should be at least minimal budgetary resources, with a separate budget line.
in writing. − in 2030, the number of people of working age in the european union will decline by 6.8%. only 2 people of working age will have to support one pensioner. the ageing of european society poses economic threats, and it is important to ensure that people remain in the labour market for as long as possible, that older workers are active in society, that they are healthy, active and independent. i voted in favour of the report on active ageing in 2012 because it calls for helping older people to maintain not only their social, but also their physical and spiritual well-being. i agree that solidarity and cooperation between generations is essential to achieve these goals. i welcome the proposal to declare 2012 the european year of active ageing. this would promote solidarity between generations, and highlight the importance of the contribution of older people to society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria, yemen and bahrain in the context of the situation in the arab world and north africa. i strongly support the condemnation of the disproportionate use of force by regimes against peaceful demonstrators. the immediate and unconditional stop of bloodshed and the release of the people arrested is a prerequisite for the continuation of the transition process. the political leaderships of the arab countries must honour their commitments by engaging without delay in an open and constructive political dialogue, involving all democratic political parties and movements and representatives of civil society. moreover, the authorities must guarantee freedom of thought, conscience and religion, which are fundamental human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in syria, yemen and bahrain, in the light of the situation in the arab world and north africa. in particular, political instability in the region is a key factor in uncontrolled migration flows into the eu. it is noted that the syrian security forces continue to crack down on the civilian population in syria, killing protesters, arresting anti-government activists and forcing civilians from their homes. all of this is forcing thousands of people to flee to turkey. in order to ensure respect for human rights and to quell unrest, the syrian authorities should release all syrian political prisoners detained for participating in anti-government demonstrations, end torture and ill-treatment, and restrict freedom of speech and the press. it should be noted that the situation in both yemen and bahrain is of great concern. the chaos in bahrain and the involvement of iran in the internal affairs of the gulf kingdom pose a threat not only to the people of bahrain but also to the entire region. in this context, we need to rethink and improve the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy and the provision of humanitarian or other assistance needed to restore peace and democracy in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the promotion of democracy in the world is one of the european union's most important tasks. the eu does indeed have a wide range of instruments to support democracy and human rights in the world, but these instruments are not currently being used effectively enough. the resolution adopted by parliament therefore calls on the eu institutions to allocate aid more consistently and efficiently, in a way that is harmonised and based on standard methods, but adapted to each country receiving aid. however, as another weakness of existing eu support for democracy in third countries, the resolution points to the inconsistent application of eu sanctions and criminal measures to countries that commit serious violations of human rights and democratic principles in defiance of their international obligations. the european parliament therefore proposes to strengthen the support provided by means of sanctions, chosen in a fair, proportionate and reasonable manner, which would allow for an appropriate and effective response to the continued failure of third countries to fulfil their international commitments to democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, as it is necessary to continue to respect democratic instruments in cooperation with foreign countries, especially third countries, and to involve all the social partners, including the media. i believe that only democratic countries, in accordance with the rule of law, can provide the basis for a balanced and legitimate partnership between the eu and third countries, in which the eu takes account of both countries' needs and interests. partnership based on dialogue and consultation strengthens accountability for democracy-building processes and elements of democratic governance. all eu institutions must therefore make greater efforts to use these various dialogues in a clearer, more coherent and more coordinated way. i also believe that the eu's role as a 'non-aligned power' in the international system can only be consolidated if its policy towards third countries genuinely prioritises the protection of human rights. the document also stresses the need for a paradigm shift, which should be based on genuine democratic consolidation, based on endogenous, sustainable, inclusive and population-friendly development, respecting the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms. the eu must help create an environment conducive to the development of democratic societies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu's external policy in support of the establishment of democracy, as social justice and the fight against inequality must be the main objectives of the eu's external policy. cooperation with foreign countries, in particular third countries, must be conducted in accordance with democratic procedures. it shall involve all social partners, including the media. it is worth noting that the experience of the transition to democracy should be shared with the emerging democratic forces in north africa and elsewhere in the middle east. i support the proposal to set up a european democracy fund to support political actors seeking democracy in non-democratic and transition countries, particularly in the eu's eastern and southern neighbourhoods. the eu must also be more active in building a coalition with the united states, focusing joint eu-us efforts to better coordinate their development policies. it is also essential to develop a more open and dynamic policy to support the driving forces of society and the actors promoting citizen participation. the need to promote close cooperation between the public and private sectors, to strengthen the capacity of civil society and to enable it to participate in policy processes
in writing. − this european parliament resolution is a strong statement for the promotion of democratic values outside europe and recognition that a ‘one size fits all’ policy on external democratisation may not be possible. the resolution affirms european values based on civil, political, cultural, and economic rights and highlights europe’s obligation to ensure that these rights are practised in europe and around the world. in cases where states are perpetrating human rights abuses, this resolution outlines several methods for dealing with foreign governments, such as imposing appropriate sanctions on individuals or using effective conditionality agreements with these countries. i voted for this resolution, because it declares that any true promotion of democracy in foreign countries cannot happen with the support of and consultation with local actors. i believe that the resolution effectively outlines the european parliament’s strong but pragmatic support for democratisation in the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the preparations for the russian state duma elections in december. we members of the european parliament strongly deplore the decision by the russian authorities to reject the registration of the people’s freedom party (parnas) for the forthcoming duma elections in december 2011. it is not acceptable that russia, which is one of the european union’s most important partners in building strategic cooperation, does not guarantee free and fair elections – which are the basis of a democratic society and one of the eu’s main values. i would like to stress once again that the state duma elections should be based on the implementation of the election standards set by the council of europe and the osce, and that the russian authorities must allow the osce/council of europe to carry out a long-term election observation mission and must cooperate fully with it from its earliest stage. those steps would send a signal to the eu and to the world that the russian authorities are ready for the modernisation and democratisation of the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it reaffirms my conviction that russia remains one of the european union's most important partners in the development of strategic cooperation, with which it shares not only economic and trade interests but also the objective of working closely together in the common neighbourhood and at global level. it is regrettable that the russian authorities have decided to reject the application to register the people's freedom party (parnas) for participation in the forthcoming duma elections in december 2011. i believe it is necessary to call on the russian authorities to ensure free and fair elections and to repeal all decisions and rules that are inconsistent with this principle. concern is also expressed about the difficulties faced by political parties wishing to register for elections, which in fact restrict political competition in russia, reduce the choice available to voters and demonstrate that there are still real obstacles to political pluralism in the country.
in writing. − russia is one of the european union's most important partners and this makes it necessary to constantly expand political dialogue in many areas. in particular, closer cooperation on economic and trade interests must be developed. there is also a need to strengthen the strategic partnership with russia and to seek solutions to common challenges in the common neighbourhood and globally. in this context, it is essential that all processes in russia take place in a manner that respects the principles of democracy and the rule of law, and ensures respect for human rights and freedoms. it is also essential that free and fair elections be held, free from violence and without any restrictions on any social group, and that decisions and rules which are inconsistent with this principle be abolished.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses concern at the decision of the russian ministry of justice not to register the people's freedom party on the eve of the duma elections. the reasons for non-registration still need to be examined, but the eu has a strong interest in the forthcoming elections in russia as a stepping stone towards a stronger democracy. refusal to register the party in russia may reduce the freedom of choice, citizens' trust in their state. russia is and will remain one of the eu's most important partners. we should be bound not only by economic and trade interdependence but also by common goals of sustainable cooperation in the neighbourhood and around the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is another important step taken by the european parliament towards safeguarding the schengen area of free movement. indeed, the free movement area has recently been threatened for various reasons, and this has led to a great deal of public debate about how the schengen area should be managed and supervised in the future. i am convinced that we need not to reform the existing system but simply to strengthen it, because the schengen rules, as defined in the schengen borders code, already provide for the conditions and procedures for the temporary reintroduction of internal border control. on the other hand, this system has some shortcomings and could be improved. first, it is unilateral and therefore cannot be used to prioritise the collective interest of the eu. the strengthening of the schengen system should change this in the future. secondly, the mechanism now in place for assessing the compliance of member states with the provisions of schengen law, where such assessment is carried out by an intergovernmental working group, is clearly inadequate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, which, given that a common european asylum system is to be established by 2012, proposes that no exceptions to the schengen code be made in any way. in particular, last year saw a massive upsurge in people leaving some north african countries and the system has recently been under pressure due to a sudden influx of migrants in some member states, leading to the possibility of reintroducing checks at national borders. i think that any new additional exceptions to the current rules, such as a new framework for the reintroduction of internal border controls in exceptional cases, would not strengthen the schengen system. it should be noted that the influx of migrants and asylum seekers at the external borders cannot in itself be considered as an additional reason for the reintroduction of border controls.
in writing. − it is worth noting that in recent years there has been an increase in the influx of people from some north african countries, and that some member states are considering the possibility of reintroducing checks at national borders in response to the sudden influx of migrants. since a common european asylum system is to be established by 2012, exceptions in the code of schengen systems would clearly not contribute to the achievement of this objective, the strengthening of freedom of movement and the eu's governance in the schengen area. however, in exceptional cases where an emergency situation arises and a member state is at risk, derogations from the strict schengen rules should be allowed, but only after a thorough investigation. we must continue to make every effort to strengthen the governance and evaluation mechanism of the schengen system. the member state needs to be provided with effective assistance and support to enable it to effectively control the part of the eu external border that it owns and to manage the largest flows of migrants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document as article 19 of protocol no 1 states that the european parliament and the national parliaments are to determine jointly how to organise and promote any form of effective and permanent interparliamentary cooperation. the european parliament shall decide, together with the council, on the budget of the eu's external action, including the budget of civilian missions under the cfsp and the csdp and the administrative costs of the eu's military coordination. the european parliament is the source of democratic legitimacy for its politically controlled csdp and cfsp. i share the view that stronger interparliamentary cooperation in the field of cfsp and csdp would enhance the influence of parliaments on the political choices of the eu and its member states, taking into account the european parliament's responsibility for the general policies of the union, including the cfsp and the csdp, and the prerogatives of each national parliament in the decision-making of national security and defence policy. the ep's own involvement in any new form of interparliamentary cooperation should be such as to reflect the breadth and importance of the ep's role in the oversight of the cfsp and the gsp, to recognise the common european nature of these policies and to meet the need to reflect the political and geographical diversity of the parliament as a whole. in order to limit additional benefits and costs, the secretariat and premises of the european parliament can in principle be used to support the organisation of interparliamentary meetings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because stronger interparliamentary cooperation in the field of cfsp and csdp would enhance the influence of parliaments on the political choices of the eu and its member states. firstly, because the european parliament is the source of democratic legitimacy for the csdp and the cfsp, which it controls politically. it shall decide, together with the council, on the budget of the eu's external action, including the budget of civilian missions under the cfsp and the csdp and the administrative costs of the eu's military coordination. in this context, effective interparliamentary cooperation in the field of the cfsp and the csdp is essential. i think it is appropriate to support the efforts of the polish presidency to reach an agreement between the european parliament and the national parliaments on new forms of interparliamentary cooperation in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union. the commission estimates that 80 million eu citizens are at risk of poverty and that the economic and financial crisis could lead to an increase in the number of people living in poverty. however, even in this difficult situation, it is planned to reduce food aid funding sharply from eur 500 million in 2011 to eur 113 million in 2012. i support the provisions in the resolution calling on the commission and the council to prepare a transitional solution to avoid a sudden and significant reduction in food aid during the remaining funding period (2012 and 2013) following a reduction in funding from 500 million to 113 million, and to ensure that people who are dependent on food aid do not suffer from food shortages. it is important to underline that the right to food is a fundamental human right and is guaranteed when all people have the physical and economic possibility to have access at all times to adequate, safe and nutritious food to meet their daily nutritional needs and to lead an active and healthy life. it is the duty of all of us to work to ensure that this right is guaranteed to every eu citizen.
in writing. − the commission estimates that 80 million people in the eu are at risk of poverty, and that the economic and financial crisis and rising food prices are putting more and more people at risk of food shortages. the programme for the distribution of food to the poorest people in the union was set up in 1987 under the common agricultural policy (cap) and currently provides food aid to 13 million people living in poverty in 19 member states, with some 240 food banks and charities involved in the distribution chain. the eu's common agricultural policy programme has increased its dependence on products purchased on the market, and this has led to a reduction in intervention stocks, which are the traditional source of supply for that programme. in 2012, there is a sudden reduction in funding from eur 500 million in 2011 to eur 113 million in 2012, which will have a huge impact on the most vulnerable eu citizens. i support the call for a transitional solution to avoid a sudden and significant reduction in food aid over the remaining funding period (2012 and 2013) following a reduction in funding from 500 million to 113 million and to ensure that people who are dependent on food aid do not suffer from food shortages.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i fully agree that the abrupt termination of the food distribution programmes which have been in operation until now, three years before the start of the new approved schemes for the financing of food distribution, and also in the midst of a crisis, is unjustified. according to the commission, 43 million people in the eu are currently food insecure, and another 80 million are at risk of falling below the poverty line as a result of the economic and financial crisis and rising food prices. the response to the growing poverty of the eu population cannot therefore be to cut off funding without any transitional measures. this is why the european parliament, in its resolution, calls on the commission and the council to prepare a transitional solution to avoid a sudden and significant reduction in food aid during the remaining funding period (2012 and 2013) following a reduction in funding from 500 million to 113 million, and to ensure that people who are dependent on food aid do not suffer from food shortages.
in writing. − i abstained because the programmes for the poor must be implemented in the light of the judicial processes before the court of first instance. this is rightly noted by the commission in its 2012 budgetary estimates. in its judgment of 13 april 2011, t576/08, the court stated that the scheme financed only food from intervention stocks and did not cover the costs incurred in buying food on the market. i consider that, on the basis of that judgment, article 2 of regulation no 983/2008 cannot be regarded as the legal basis for the distribution of food to people in need. the commission should propose amendments to the regulation on the programme for the most deprived persons in order to find a way out of the current impasse at council level. the legal basis should be established before the start of the next financial programming period. agrees that the right to food is a fundamental human right and is guaranteed when all people have the physical and economic possibility to have access at all times to adequate, safe and nutritious food to meet their daily nutritional needs and to lead an active and healthy life; stresses that poor nutrition has a negative impact on health. high-quality food and healthy nutrition are particularly important for children as they contribute to meeting their developmental and educational needs. meanwhile, farmers must be guaranteed adequate and fair income and remuneration for their work. the commission should address rural poverty and the breakdown of rural communities.
in writing. − the right to food is a fundamental human right. however, millions of people in the eu are at risk of food insecurity, making the benefits of the food distribution programme for the poorest people undeniable. in this context, it is essential that all interested parties carry out a long-term, in-depth assessment of the suitability of the food distribution programme, in particular as part of the cap, in the light of the new funding period. in addition, the commission and the council should take the necessary decisions as soon as possible to avoid a sudden and significant reduction in food aid following a reduction in funding. if decisions are not taken in time, people who depend on food aid will suffer from food shortages. i believe that the commission should initiate draft legislation on the relevant minimum income schemes and the contribution compensatory income scheme with a financial contribution equivalent to at least 60% of the average national income.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as most military forces no longer use antipersonnel mines, but they continue to be used by various armed non-state groups in conjunction with victim-activated improvised explosive devices, and more than 90 countries are still suffering from antipersonnel mines and other post-war explosive devices, with afghanistan, colombia, pakistan, myanmar, cambodia and laos being the most affected. the ep welcomes the fact that 156 countries, including 25 eu member states, have now signed and ratified the mine ban treaty, but regrets that 37 countries have not yet signed the treaty and calls on all states that have not yet done so to sign the mine ban treaty and the convention on cluster munitions. i agree that the international community should focus on those countries which are least able to help themselves in the areas of demining and assistance to the victims and that the situation must be changed as quickly as possible so that the country can be declared mine-free and free from any threat to life and economic development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on progress in the fight against landmines, as landmines continue to pose a threat to human life and the economic development of the country. it is worth noting that landmines are used by various armed non-state groups and this causes great tragedies, killing many people. it is therefore necessary to step up and intensify efforts to eliminate the threat of anti-personnel mines within a defined period. in addition, the methods of mine detection and reconnaissance must be continuously improved. the international community should pay greater attention to those countries that are least able to help themselves in the areas of demining and victim assistance. in the meantime, aid providers need to be more effective in planning, monitoring and evaluating their funding.
sexual crimes are one of the most heinous crimes and in the democratic republic of congo, this type of crime is spreading like an epidemic. and no measure, national or international, has been able to stop them. and this impotence is particularly evident in the case of united nations peacekeepers, who are also powerless to do anything. i agree with my colleagues that we need financial injections and that the european union must set an example by raising funds to help victims of crime and to prosecute criminals. well, those international monopolies that make fabulous profits from the congolese natural resources, from ethically paid work, should feel not only a moral obligation, but also an obligation of the international community to contribute to the eradication of this epidemic.
when we consider the eu's raw materials strategy, and if we want to solve the raw materials problem in europe, we must start first with ourselves. it is generally accepted that the most readily available source of raw materials is waste. unfortunately, although the average rate of waste recycling in the european union is constantly increasing, there are still a number of member states where a significant proportion of waste ends up in landfills. this could therefore be seen as a major opportunity by countries that have long lived in a planned economy and whose economies are still largely based on production, processing or recycling rather than innovation. more attention to recycling and recovering waste would not only help to solve the eu's raw materials problems, but would also have significant benefits for national economies. i therefore call on both the commission and the member states to take a more active approach to the recovery of raw materials from waste.
as the world's demand for oil and its products increases, so does the desire to extract more. unfortunately, conventional oil and gas wells are running low. this is why we look for places where there is a lot of oil and gas, but where it is more expensive and more dangerous to extract it from the sea floor. the disaster in the gulf of mexico last year showed that the planning, operation, and closure of such wells require extreme caution. this european parliament document, which sets stricter requirements for operators of drilling rigs and gives more powers to the supervisory authorities, is therefore very timely. i am pleased that my amendments are reflected in the report. and there are a few things that really need to be addressed. first, pollution does not exist within national borders. it is therefore important that the same requirements apply to projects in third countries (in particular in the european union's neighbourhood) and to companies registered in third countries. we also need to reach an agreement with third countries on compensation for environmental damage in the event of an accident occurring in the jurisdiction of those third countries. secondly, the environmental risks are not only related to the extraction of resources, but also to their transport and the operation of the transport infrastructure, whether it be tankers or pipelines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on european operational cooperation in the framework of the european union agency for the management of the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). the creation of the schengen area and the abolition of internal borders in the eu are giving the eu member states a common approach to the protection of external borders, and the need for integrated external border management is becoming increasingly important. in this context, it is essential to ensure the effective functioning of the frontex agency responsible for the protection of the external borders. frontex should be the european external borders agency, which coordinates joint eu actions related to the external borders of the eu member states. frontex should be particularly ready to assist member states when technical and operational assistance is required at the external borders, in particular those member states facing particular and disproportionate pressure. i therefore support the amendments to the frontex regulation contained in the resolution, as i believe they will strengthen the work of this agency, contribute to a more efficient implementation of its functions and tasks, and at the same time better protect the eu's external borders.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) is a very important element of the eu's migration management mechanism and i believe that its full potential has not yet been exploited. the importance of frontex has been particularly highlighted in recent months, as refugees from north africa have flooded europe. i therefore consider that the adoption of this amended regulation would be very timely, even though the amendments it envisages were drawn up on the basis of the commission's report already submitted in 2008 and the recommendations of the governing council. the objectives of the present proposal are to strengthen the agency's capacity to design, coordinate and implement activities, with particular emphasis on sharing tasks with the eu member states in terms of the allocation of human resources and technical equipment, as well as the extension of internal and external mandates and assignments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because one of the elements of the eu's common area of freedom, security and justice is the abolition of internal borders, particularly in the schengen area. the external borders of the eu member states are therefore becoming a common problem and the need for integrated external border management is becoming more important. the lessons of the first five years of the agency (frontex, the external border management agency of the member states of the european union) should be learnt and its mandate re-enforced, with more resources and tools to make it more effective. a recurring problem was that frontex was highly dependent on the deployment of personnel and equipment from member states for the missions it coordinated. the participation of member states was inconsistent and the commitments to provide equipment were insufficient. these shortcomings seriously undermined the efficiency of the agency. another problem was the lack of cooperation with third countries. i believe that the removal of these shortcomings and this document will contribute to the improvement of the agency's performance.
in writing. - i thank my dear colleague busuttil for his well-balanced report and contribution to the consensus on how to strengthen the frontex agency. the principle of solidarity between states has been reinforced, the involvement of the european parliament has been increased, and the respect for fundamental rights has been strengthened. this is important to build public support and confidence in this european institution. however, frontex does not become a supranational institution - responsibility for border management and control lies with the member states. therefore, in carrying out operations, especially where the greatest challenges are encountered, frontex should involve national forces to the greatest extent possible, so that their capabilities remain enhanced after the end of operations and they continue to apply good practices. it is important that the institutions responsible for external relations in the eu and the member states concerned are consulted before the agency enters into working arrangements with third countries. experience has shown that non-democratic regimes can abuse judicial cooperation for political purposes. the eu must also address other aspects of immigration. the eu's external borders should not be crossed by unwanted persons. the case of a schengen visa issued to a suspected war criminal who may have visited eu territory on several occasions is a cause for serious concern. when arrested at vienna airport on the basis of a european arrest warrant, he was released without having undergone the european arrest warrant procedure. we must do everything we can to prevent this from happening again.
in writing. - i voted for this document. dual-use goods licences are valid in the european union (dual-use goods are defined as goods, including software and technology, which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, as well as any goods that can be connected in any way to the production of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices). the regulation establishes a list of dual-use items and it is constantly updated to reflect the international commitments of the member states and rapid technological developments. this update of the list, which we voted on, will ensure full implementation of the commitments throughout the eu and will provide legal clarity for eu exporters on which goods require export licences.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to oblige the commission and the member states to establish a regime for the control of the safe transit of dual-use items by establishing a reliable system for reporting, collection, transmission and storage. it is essential to strengthen the export of chemical and biological weapons and to strengthen and strengthen international arms export licensing to ensure the safety of people. the dual-use authorisation is decided under international export control regimes in countries that fall into four main groups: the australia group, which seeks to prevent the spread of chemical and biological weapons; the nuclear suppliers group, which seeks to stop the spread of unmanned nuclear weapon delivery systems; the missile technology control group, which seeks to reduce the spread of nuclear weapons and control exports; and the wassenar agreement, which focuses on the transparency of export control regimes. all these export regime countries are committed to good relations, cooperation and security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the substantial amendments to article 1 of the regulation, which aim to oblige the commission and the member states to set up a secure system for the collection, transmission and storage of reports and to oblige the commission to inform the european parliament of the operation of this system. parliament also wants to oblige the duayope coordination group to submit an annual report to the european parliament. this would enable parliament to exercise its control function vis-à-vis the european commission. finally, parliament called on the commission to report on the implementation and application of this regulation and to provide a detailed impact assessment of the regulation.
in writing. − the rapporteur, mr vital moreira, highlighted the lack of democratic parliamentary control and the difficulties for the european parliament in exercising its legislative powers in this area. the prevailing practice is fragmented, with dual-use export controls remaining a closed intergovernmental policy area, with little coordination even between eu member states, with the commission playing only a mediating role and with national parliaments and the european parliament remaining on the sidelines. it is important to emphasise that this area is part of the cfsp and requires at least a sufficient exchange of information between member states. the problem of time-varying information covers both the dual-use goods and the trade in military equipment. i recall a recent case where one of the major eu member states agreed to sell military shipping and, more recently, equipment to a third country. the other eu member states were not informed in advance through the relevant working bodies. some parties have concerns that this technique could be used in a zone of tension. i believe that eu countries need to develop more transparent, responsible and principled export policies for military equipment and dual-use goods. a deeper review of the relevant eu legislation is therefore indeed needed, as the rapporteur proposes, in order to strengthen cfsp coordination, information exchange, the formation of a common eu position and its representation in international control regimes, and the enhanced role of parliamentary control by the european parliament, as required by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the control of the re-export and transit of dual-use items which can be used for both civilian and military purposes is one of the most important elements in preventing international arms proliferation. the sector also plays a key role in fostering innovation and promoting competitiveness. in this context, we must make every effort to facilitate the legitimate trade in these goods and to prevent their illicit use for military purposes or distribution programmes. to achieve these objectives, the list of dual-use items needs to be updated in the light of modern technological developments and the obligations and commitments undertaken by member states under international non-proliferation regimes, export control agreements and international treaties. in the area of dual use of goods in the european union, it is necessary to ensure a more transparent and democratic decision-making process. in order to enable parliament to exercise its supervisory function vis-à-vis the commission, it is necessary to give it greater powers in the field of amendments to this regulation. the commission must make every effort to ensure that the secure system for the collection, transmission and storage of reports is properly operational and must keep parliament informed of its operation. it is also essential to ensure that the duvepo goods use coordination group submits annual reports to parliament.
in writing. - i voted for this document. many acts adopted in recent decades have no longer any effect, but remain officially valid. some of them are no longer relevant because they were temporary or their content was repeated in other legislation. other legislation provided for transitional measures for the new member states before accession, which expired when they became eu members. although these acts are still technically valid, they no longer have any real practical effect. in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that community legislation should be updated and consolidated, repealing acts that are no longer applicable, thus bringing clarity, transparency and simplicity to eu law and to stakeholders.
in writing. − i voted for this report because over the last decade or so, a great deal of legislation has been adopted in the field of the common agricultural policy, which is technically still in force but has in fact expired. most of these documents are outdated, as the same area was regulated by later eu documents, some of which were temporary in general. most of these documents were used for a limited period, for example, documents which helped to prepare new member states for eu accession. therefore, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making 2003c321/1, the validity of these instruments is suspended. it is necessary to reduce the number of eu acts and other documents or to replace them by more restrictive acts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the better law-making strategy, which is being implemented by the union institutions, focuses on increasing the transparency of union law. in view of this, it is appropriate to remove from the list of existing acts those acts which have no real effect. in the interests of legal certainty and clarity, those obsolete regulations should be repealed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to repeal certain obsolete council acts in the field of the common agricultural policy, given the need for european union legislation to be transparent and effective. it should be noted that many regulations in the common agricultural policy area are still valid, although they are outdated, and do not reflect the realities of current political and social relations. they were temporary in nature or their content was repeated in subsequent legislation. it is therefore appropriate to remove from the list of existing acts those acts which do not have a real effect. i believe that we must do everything we can to ensure clarity, legal certainty and better regulation at eu level.
in writing. - i voted for this document. many acts adopted in recent decades have no longer any effect, but remain officially valid. some of them are no longer relevant because they were temporary or their content was repeated in other legislation. other legislation provided for transitional measures for the new member states until accession. although these acts are still technically valid, they no longer have any real practical effect. in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that community legislation should be updated and consolidated by repealing acts that are no longer applicable, thus bringing greater clarity, transparency and simplicity to eu law and to stakeholders.
in writing. − the commission proposal for the repeal of a number of acts, submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, is in line with the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of legislation and simplify existing legislation in order to create a better and clearer legal environment for businesses. many of the union's acts adopted in the field of the common commercial policy in recent decades have no longer any impact, but remain formally valid. these acts have become obsolete. in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that community legislation should be updated and consolidated by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. in the interests of greater transparency and certainty of union legislation, obsolete acts should be deleted from community law. i voted in favour of the document as the proposed amendments aim to provide greater clarity and legal certainty for the citizens and institutions of the union.
in writing. - i voted for this document. many acts adopted in recent decades have no longer any effect, but remain officially valid. some of them are no longer relevant because they were temporary or their content was repeated in other legislation. other legislation provided for transitional measures for the new member states until they became eu members. although these acts are still technically valid, they no longer have any practical effect. in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that community legislation should be updated and consolidated, repealing acts that are no longer applicable, thus bringing clarity, transparency and simplicity to eu law and to stakeholders.
in writing. − council regulation (eec) no 429/73 was adopted to fix a reduced component of the fixed rate of import duty applicable to processed agricultural products originating in turkey imported under the additional protocol to the 1970 agreement establishing an association between the european economic community and turkey. decision no 1/95 of the ec-turkey association council of 22 december 1995 on the implementation of the last stage of the customs union lays down the rules for the application of customs duties on processed agricultural products originating in turkey and imported into the european union. regulation (eec) no 429/73 has become obsolete. that is why i voted to repeal this document.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which proposes to repeal the regulation establishing special concessions for the introduction into the community of certain goods originating in turkey. it should be noted that by decision no 1/95 of the ec-turkey association council of 22 december 1995 on the implementation of the last stage of the customs union, customs duties on goods originating in turkey were abolished. in view of this and in the interests of transparency and certainty of union legislation, obsolete acts should be deleted from community law without delay. i therefore believe that business conditions must be created for large businesses as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that a better, clearer and more effective legal framework must be created. we must therefore do everything we can to improve the quality of legislation and simplify existing legislation, providing greater clarity and legal certainty for citizens, businesses and institutions.
in writing. − the european parliament and the commission have agreed to make union law simpler, clearer, more understandable and more accessible to citizens so that they can make full use of the rights conferred on them. eu legislation is a complex process, with many provisions often being amended in part or in substance, scattered across different documents, leading to codification, which allows the consolidation of legislation without changing its content. i voted in favour of this amendment to the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, which would bring together all the existing provisions in this field into a single document.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because it stresses the importance of simple and clear laws that are accessible and easily understood. the principle of transparency of european legislation and its more effective implementation must be respected, and the exercise of rights by eu citizens must be made easier. the european institutions must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when preparing proposals. the form of regulations should be used more frequently in legislative proposals, in order to adopt fewer but better pieces of legislation. i support the european citizens' initiative as a new form of public participation in the european union's policy making. the commission must and must ensure that citizens are aware of the rules and regulations applicable in order to make effective use of this instrument.
in writing. − without debate, we agreed to the codified version of the legislation governing certain aspects of the environmental impact assessment procedure. on the one hand, we have provided legal clarity to society and businesses by formally putting all the provisions together in one document. on the other hand, the continuous emergence of cases (starting with the nord stream gas pipeline and ending with projects of local importance in the member states) suggests that we will have to seriously discuss some essential aspects of the environmental impact assessment process in the future, such as ensuring the independence of the process from its clients, expanding the concept of the public concerned. the european commission, as the guardian of eu law, could also play a more active (and above all impartial) role in this process, especially where the project crosses national borders. i therefore urge the commission to take these comments into account when reviewing the substantive provisions of the ppp directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the procedure for access by public authorities to the services of the global navigation satellite system developed under the galileo programme. services to public authorities (psus) are one of the five types of services provided by the european satellite navigation programme galileo. the ipp is intended only for government-authorised users who would use the applications for confidential purposes (e.g. critical infrastructure, communications, internal and external security, emergency services). the project is expected to start in 2014, but it is important to establish the necessary legal framework in advance, so that member states and other actors have sufficient time to develop the various control mechanisms and to implement the necessary security requirements. i therefore supported the commission's proposal in the resolution to establish detailed rules on access to the ees and user control and management in order to ensure the security of the system and the protection of information. a high level of protection is necessary because some applications used for this service may be politically and strategically sensitive.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the commission proposal covers the public authorities services (pscs) of the european satellite navigation programme galileo, which are intended only for users authorised by governments to use the applications for confidential purposes (e.g. critical infrastructure, communications, internal and external security, emergency services). these applications require a high level of accuracy and reliability, and this proposal therefore establishes detailed rules for the access procedure and user control and management of the vis.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i support the importance of creating our own european satellite navigation system, and the document voted for today covers one of the five core services that the galileo programme is intended to create. the document voted on by the european parliament today aims to create the necessary legal framework for the galileo programme, which will be operational from 2014 and whose main objective is to provide satellite navigation services to public authorities. this service would be limited to government-authorised users who would use the applications for confidential purposes (e.g. critical infrastructure, communications, internal and external security, emergency services). these applications require a high level of accuracy and reliability, and therefore strong encrypted signals will be used in this project. the programmes used to provide this service can, of course, be a highly sensitive issue for the member states from a political and strategic point of view, and it is therefore necessary to ensure the highest possible level of security. for this reason, the legal framework for such a programme is already being developed.
in writing. − the annex to regulation (ec) no 683/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the further implementation of the european satellite navigation programmes (egnos and galileo) (4) states that the specific objectives of the galileo programme are to ensure that the signals emitted by the system can be used to provide services to public authorities (hereinafter referred to as 'governmental services') which are provided only to certain users authorised by governments for confidential purposes, which require effective access control and a high level of continuity of service. member states, the council, the commission and the eeas shall have the right to unlimited and uninterrupted access to the cvmp worldwide. i voted in favour of the document as each member state using vat decides for itself which categories of natural persons residing in its territory or carrying out official duties abroad on behalf of that member state and which legal persons established in its territory are allowed to be vat users and what the possible purposes of vat use are. such use may include a safety-related use.
in writing. like the majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the rules governing access rights to encrypted signals and the conditions under which companies develop and market software applications and navigation devices. this report will enable the european satellite navigation system galileo to offer a gps signal reserved for authorised users such as police, military and security services, in addition to signals for general navigation, as from 2014. parliament approved specific rules governing the future 'regulated public service' of galileo, which should be in place by mid-october 2011. galileo will offer five separate services: the open service, the commercial service, the secure service, the search and rescue service and the regulated public service (prs). prs, one of three services that could be offered from 2014, will be reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications such as critical infrastructure, traffic, defence, security and emergency services. these applications will require precision and reliability of the highest order, which is why the prs will use strong, encrypted signals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the procedure for access by public authorities to the services of the global navigation satellite system developed under the galileo programme. i believe that it is appropriate to allow access to the services of the european satellite navigation programmes to certain users authorised by governments for confidential or security-related purposes. member states, the council, the commission and the european external action service shall be granted discretionary, unrestricted and uninterrupted access worldwide. it should be noted that the galileo programme is of strategic importance in the field of precision targeting. it also contributes to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to promote the use and development of galileo applications and services. however, a high level of protection of classified information must be ensured in all cases. an effective control mechanism and strict conditions of use must be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the international tropical timber agreement. the current state of the rain forests is tragic. the area of primary forest lost each year is the size of greece. this increases the risk of irreversible loss of biodiversity and global warming. although the first international tropical timber agreement was concluded more than 20 years ago, over-exploitation and illegal logging continue to be rampant. almost half of all logging activity in regions such as the amazon and congo river basins, southeast asia, and russia is illegal. so i support this international agreement on tropical timber, which i believe addresses the most important issues in the timber industry. the international tropical timber organisation will continue to address deforestation and illegal logging, but more can be done to strengthen enforcement of forestry legislation, for example, the eu should adopt strong sanctions such as fines proportionate to the environmental damage, the value of the timber or timber products involved, as well as the tax losses and economic damage caused by the infringement; confiscation of the timber and timber products involved; and the emergency suspension of the marketing authorisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which expresses the european parliament's support for the 2006 international agreement on tropical timber, which addresses key issues for the timber industry. the high rate of deforestation is threatening irreversible biodiversity loss and global warming. the main objective of this agreement is therefore to promote the development and diversification of international trade in tropical timber and to ensure sustainable forest management. these objectives should be pursued by ensuring an effective framework for consultation among all members, international cooperation and policy development taking into account all relevant aspects of the global timber industry. the agreement also provides for a licensing system to control the entry of only legally produced timber into the market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to consolidate the european parliament's procedural powers under the treaty of lisbon, where international agreements are concluded on behalf of the european union. the question of signing an international agreement on tropical timber on behalf of the eu was first raised in the european parliament in 2007, but it was rejected by the parliament because it considered that the approval procedure for the agreement was not appropriate. the international tropical timber agreement aims to protect tropical forests, which are vital to the planet's biological and climatic balance, from over-exploitation and illegal logging. although such international agreements have been in force for over 20 years, illegal logging and deforestation of tropical forests is still widespread. according to the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd), the area of tropical forest lost each year is equivalent to the size of greece. the purpose of this agreement is, inter alia, to establish the modalities for a reliable licensing system a mechanism allowing only legally harvested timber to be placed on the market.
in writing. − the 2006 agreement between producers and consumers of wood products is valid for 10 years. it shall be reviewed every five years. the 2006 agreement aims, inter alia, to promote the development and diversification of international trade in tropical timber originating in sustainable forests from which timber is legally harvested and to promote the management of sustainable forests producing tropical timber. these objectives should be pursued by ensuring an effective framework for consultation among all members, international cooperation and policy development taking into account all relevant aspects of the global timber industry. the agreement sets out the means by which a reliable licensing system is ensured a measure authorising the placing on the market of legally harvested timber products only, and confirms the very existence of the international tropical timber organisation, established under the international tropical timber agreement of 1983, and indicates its means of operation. more than 80% of tropical timber producers and importers are members of the organisation and parties to the international tropical timber agreement. i voted in favour of the document because i believe it addresses the most important issues in the timber industry. the international tropical timber organisation will continue to address deforestation and illegal logging, but more can be done to strengthen the implementation of forestry legislation, for example, the eu could take the measures mentioned above.
in writing. − i support this resolution as this agreement covers both international trade and environmental aspects and provides a legal basis for cooperation between tropical timber producing and consuming countries. the extension of the 2006 international tropical timber agreement will continue to address relevant issues in the timber industry. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for timber products and on the market for timber products produced in the union. it is important to note that the renewal of the agreement is to focus on the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of deforested areas. in addition, the public must be better informed about the negative consequences of improper use of wood resources through education and information policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-switzerland agreement. switzerland is the european union's fourth largest trading partner. the volume of exports and imports of agricultural products from the eu and switzerland is particularly significant. in 2010, the eu exported eur 6,3 billion of agricultural products to switzerland, making it the third largest eu export market for agricultural products. the agreement aims to ensure mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and geographical indications in order to maintain conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products and to improve the quality of the food supply chain. the entry into force of the agreement will provide for better protection of origin and appropriate geographical indications for exporters of certain eu agricultural products such as meat and dairy products in one of the closest and largest export markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs. this agreement is of major importance for the european union switzerland is the eu's third largest export market for agricultural products. the conditions and arrangements for bilateral trade relations must therefore be continuously improved and updated. the agreement on trade in agricultural products was concluded in 1999 and entered into force in 2002. it did not create a completely free trade in agricultural products, but only partially liberalised certain agricultural sectors. by signing this new annex, the two parties to the agreement aim to ensure mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and geographical indications in order to maintain conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products and also to improve the quality of the food supply chain. this agreement is very important and long awaited, since until now only the protection of designations of origin for wines and spirits has been provided for in a bilateral agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as both parties agreed on a harmonised procedure to identify and effectively protect registered designations of origin and geographical indications. on the basis of this common understanding and the convergence of their national legislation, both parties have mutually recognised the list of registered protected agricultural products. the new annex 12 lists some 800 geographical indications registered in the eu and 22 geographical indications registered in switzerland. this is a serious and long-awaited improvement on the previously existing trading conditions, since until now only the protection of designations of origin for wines and spirits was provided for in the bilateral agreement with the swiss confederation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the entry into force of this agreement will significantly enhance the free trade relationship between the european union and the swiss confederation. in particular, the main barriers to trade will be removed and thus more opportunities will be created for access to the agricultural products market of the other country. it is welcome that after lengthy discussions, a harmonised procedure for the identification and effective protection of registered designations of origin and geographical indications has finally been agreed. it is gratifying that both parties have recognised the list of registered protected agricultural products.
in writing. − i have given my consent to the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway, which will review the conditions for trade in agricultural products. norway is a member of the european economic area (eea) and enjoys the benefits of the internal market, but the 1992 eea agreement provides that agricultural and fishery products will not be subject to the free movement provisions. the agreement provides for the gradual liberalisation of agricultural production, with a review of the provisions of the agreement every two years. the latter agreement provides for full liberalisation, covering around 20% of eu exports to norway and amounting to some eur 250 million. in total, about 60% (in terms of market value) of agricultural trade between the kingdom of norway and the european union will be completely free.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway gradually liberalising trade in agricultural products between the two parties to the agreement. trade in agricultural products is an exclusive area of eu-norway relations, outside the scope of the european economic area agreement, which provides for the free movement of other products between the two countries. this agreement is part of the liberalisation process provided for in the eu-norway agreement, whereby the parties have committed themselves to reviewing the conditions for trade in agricultural products every two years, each time deciding what further action to take to remove all types of trade barriers in the agricultural sector. this time it is agreed that norway will apply tariff quotas or lower tariffs to some other important products such as meat, dairy products, fruit, vegetables and ornamental plants, while the eu will fully liberalise trade in those products for which norway already has a fully free trade regime (cheese, fresh oats, potato chips and petfood).
in writing. − i have supported this proposal because it provides for additional full liberalisation, which will cover around 20% of eu exports to norway and amount to around eur 250 million. in total, about 60% (in terms of market value) of agricultural trade between the kingdom of norway and the european union will be completely free. norway will apply tariff quotas or reduced rates to certain other important products such as meat, dairy products, fruit, vegetables and ornamental plants. the concessions granted by the european union to norway also include full liberalisation of those products for which norway applies full liberalisation and additional quotas for cheese, fresh lamb, potato chips and petfood. the agreement takes into account the situation of opium as a product of particular importance for agricultural production in both the eu and norway and provides for the relevant rules on tariff quotas or reduced customs duties; these duties will also be relevant in the medium and long term for agricultural production, taking into account the conditions provided for under the cap reforms after 2013. while norway's overall trade balance with the eu is positive, the agricultural trade balance is more favourable to the eu. between 2000 and 2007, eu exports of agricultural products doubled to €1.6 billion. however, the agreement will have budgetary implications. it is estimated that approximately eur 4,96 million in customs revenue will be lost (net of collection costs).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the agreement will be mutually beneficial for both the european union and the kingdom of norway if it enters into force. this will be another major step towards the gradual liberalisation of agricultural trade between the two countries. it should be noted that only this agreement will allow for a fully free agricultural trade between norway and the eu, as it provides for additional full liberalisation of exports. in addition, tariff quotas and tariffs for certain other important products will be reduced. efficient measures will therefore continue to be taken to remove all types of barriers to trade in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. the eu's trade relations with liechtenstein are closely linked to the eu's trade relations with the swiss confederation, the european union's fourth largest trading partner. the eu and switzerland have defined their relations through bilateral agreements in various fields. following switzerland's rejection of the european economic area agreement in 1992, negotiations were launched on trade agreements in seven sectors, including the agricultural products sector, in order to mitigate the negative consequences. the so-called agricultural agreement was concluded in 1999 and entered into force on 1 june 2002. the agricultural agreement between the european community and switzerland was subsequently applied to the principality of liechtenstein. under the additional agreement, liechtenstein products are considered as products originating in switzerland. with this renewed agreement, the eu and switzerland aim to ensure mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and geographical indications in order to maintain conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of another agreement between the european union and liechtenstein, which is very closely linked to the eu-switzerland agreement on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs. the scope of the eu-switzerland agreements on trade in agricultural products has been extended to the principality of liechtenstein since 2007, and it is this agreement that makes liechtenstein products products considered as products originating in switzerland. in the meantime, two food names included in the swiss geographical indications will also be applied in the territory of liechtenstein. by this annex to the agricultural agreement, which is extended to liechtenstein, the eu and switzerland seek to ensure the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications in order to maintain the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products while promoting quality in the food chain.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal, as this time a new annex (annex 12) is added to the agriculture agreement, the eu and switzerland seek to ensure mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications in order to maintain the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products and at the same time to promote the quality of the food chain. it is by virtue of the additional agreement that liechtenstein products are considered as products originating in switzerland. the additional agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein should therefore also be amended to extend the protection of geographical indications to liechtenstein. two names included in the swiss geographical indications will also be applied in the territory of liechtenstein.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the amendment of the additional agreement is a positive and necessary step towards improving bilateral agricultural trade between the ec and switzerland. it is noted that the entry into force of the amendment to the agreement will preserve the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products and foodstuffs, promote the quality of the food chain and the development of a system of designations of origin and geographical indications in a coherent manner. in addition, the eu and switzerland will be given a favourable opportunity to ensure the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications. it should be noted that the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products will also apply to the principality of liechtenstein. the protection of geographical indications will therefore extend to liechtenstein and its products will be considered as products originating in switzerland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. until now, the south pacific fisheries have been the responsibility of two regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo) in the south pacific: the iattc and the wcpfc. the objective of both organisations was to manage long-distance migratory fish stocks, and therefore stocks of other species were not regulated in this large area, except for the exclusive economic zones (eez) of coastal states, which applied their own rules. in order to fill this gap and in view of the fact that both iez and high seas are fished, the australian, chilean and new zealand governments decided in 2006 to open international consultations with a view to establishing a regional fisheries management organisation for the south pacific (rfmvo) with the objective of working together to fill the gap in the conservation and management of highly migratory fish stocks and the protection of the biodiversity of the high seas of the south pacific, without prejudice to international law and in line with good practice. the eu has been involved in the negotiation process from the outset and has made good progress, so it is now necessary to allow the eu to ratify the convention and to be active in international and bilateral fora, and to encourage countries with fishing fleets in the convention's region to sign, ratify and apply the convention in order to accelerate its entry into force.
in writing. − i supported this legislation because, as both organisations were aiming to manage highly migratory fish, stocks of other species in this large area were not regulated, except in the exclusive economic zones (eez) of coastal states which applied their own rules. in order to fill this gap and in view of the fact that both iez and high seas are fished, the australian, chilean and new zealand governments decided in 2006 to open international consultations with a view to establishing a regional fisheries management organisation for the south pacific (rfmvo) with the objective of working together to fill the gap in the conservation and management of highly migratory fish stocks and the protection of the biodiversity of the high seas of the south pacific, without prejudice to international law and in line with good practice. the parties now have to ratify the convention, and the purpose of this draft council decision is to enable the eu to ratify the convention.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is appropriate and absolutely necessary for the eu to ratify the convention on the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific, as it has fisheries-related interests in the south pacific. in addition, under the terms of the un convention on the law of the sea, the eu is obliged to cooperate with other stakeholders in the management and conservation of the region's resources. it is important to stress that every effort should be made to ensure that the majority of coastal states in this part of the world recognise, as soon as possible, the management measures applicable in their waters in accordance with international law and do not oppose their implementation. it is to be welcomed that after lengthy discussions it has been agreed that the convention will ensure access for a contracting party to ports of other states parties. under this provision, community pelagic vessels will be granted access to at least chilean ports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement. the commission will first negotiate an agreement on mutual recognition of the conclusions of the certification of aviation products, parts and appliances. brazil is the tenth largest economy in the world and the eu's tenth largest trading partner. the agreement will therefore be of great benefit to eu and brazilian companies, as it provides for shorter, simpler and therefore less costly product approval procedures and mutual recognition of certification findings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its support for the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement with brazil in the field of civil aviation security. the aim of this agreement is to increase mutual trust in the trade of aeronautical products by harmonising product certification systems, while minimising the duplication of assessment, testing and inspection. the unification of these systems would allow the importing authority to issue its own certificate for the aeronautical product, part or appliance without having to repeat all the assessments carried out by the exporting authority. the european union's aeronautical product certification scheme has been fully taken into account in the draft text of the eu-brazil agreement, which clearly separates the tasks of certification of aeronautical goods and parts from those of organisations involved in the design and manufacture of these products and parts thereof. the text of the agreement is also designed to allow the parties to respond flexibly and promptly to safety concerns, or to establish an appropriate higher level of protection for their safety, as appropriate.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document because this agreement will be of great benefit to eu and brazilian companies, as it provides for shorter, simpler and therefore less expensive product approval procedures and mutual recognition of certification findings. the agreement will also bring a net benefit to the european union by establishing a procedure for all member states to mutually recognise the findings of certification in all areas of airworthiness. the main objectives of this agreement are to facilitate trade in goods and services covered by the agreement, to minimise duplication of assessment, testing and control (essential regulatory differences to be identified) and to rely on the certification system of either country to determine compliance with the requirements of the other.
in writing. − i support this resolution as it is another major step towards the gradual opening of markets and ensuring a high level of regulatory cooperation. it should be noted that the entry into force of the agreement will lead to more favourable conditions for trade. in addition, mutual recognition of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness and maintenance will be ensured for all eu member states. the agreement provides for shorter, simpler and cheaper product approval procedures, which will facilitate relations between eu and brazilian companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, which aims to improve the procedure for surrender for the purpose of prosecution or punishment between the member states and norway and iceland. the agreement only extends the provisions already in force in the eu member states and the contracting parties will ensure that the extradition system is based on surrender on the basis of an arrest warrant.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway and the republic of iceland on a mutual legal assistance agreement and a transfer agreement. this agreement aims to improve the surrender procedure for the prosecution or punishment of a criminal offence between the member states and norway and iceland. the contracting parties shall ensure that the system of extradition is based on surrender pursuant to an arrest warrant, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. an arrest warrant may be issued for an offence punishable by a custodial sentence or a term of imprisonment of at least 12 months under the law of the issuing state and, where a sentence has already been imposed or a decision on imprisonment has been adopted, for a period of at least four months. the procedure for the conclusion of this agreement was launched as early as 2001, but for various reasons, including the many changes that have taken place in the relevant policy areas and in the structure of the european union itself during that period, it is only now, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, that the procedure for the conclusion of the agreement can be completed.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the agreement aims to improve the procedure for surrender for the purpose of prosecution or punishment between the member states and norway and iceland, taking into account the conditions of the convention of 27 september 1996 on extradition between the member states of the european union as minimum requirements. the contracting parties shall ensure that the system of extradition is based on surrender pursuant to an arrest warrant, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. an arrest warrant may be issued for an offence punishable by a custodial sentence or a term of imprisonment of at least 12 months under the law of the issuing state and, where a sentence has already been imposed or a decision on imprisonment has been adopted, for a period of at least four months.
in writing. − i am pleased that after lengthy negotiations an agreement has been reached with norway and iceland on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and on the transfer procedure. in concluding this agreement, the parties expressed their mutual confidence in the structures and functioning of their legal systems and in their ability to ensure a fair trial. i support this resolution because the entry into force of the agreement will improve the procedure for surrender for the purpose of prosecution or punishment. under the terms of the agreement, the system of extradition will be based on surrender on the basis of an arrest warrant. i believe that this agreement will improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters without prejudice to the rules on the protection of personal liberty and will also facilitate closer cooperation in the fight against crime.
in writing. - i have endorsed the commission proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation establishing the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (the 'kev joint undertaking') was established on 30 may 2008. fuel cell and hydrogen (fh) technologies represent a promising, long-term energy option that can be used across all sectors of the economy and has a wide range of benefits in terms of energy security, transport, the environment and the sustainable use of resources. they are expected to be crucial in the eu's transition to a low-carbon society and will contribute to the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 85% by 2050. in order to exploit the full potential of the technologies of the ets, it is still necessary to ensure continuous and sustained public support, together with appropriate policy measures to overcome the remaining technological, economic and institutional barriers to the wide commercial adoption of those technologies.
in writing. − i agree that the current involvement of the fte joint undertaking is not as active as initially expected, due to the low funding rates and the financial and economic crisis affecting the sector involved in this future technology. if we do nothing, it is likely that both industry and the research sector will lose interest in these activities altogether. however, i abstained from voting in favour of this document because i do not believe that simply raising funding rates or relaxing conditions always leads to a positive result, and that other solutions must be sought.
in writing. − one of the steps to combat climate change is to promote alternative energy and, in particular, green transport, such as electric cars. in order to accelerate the development of electric vehicles in the european union and thus reduce co2 emissions, it is important to make this mode of transport as attractive as possible to consumers. in the current situation, one of the main obstacles is the uncomfortable fuel cells, which add to the vehicle's weight and do not provide sufficient range without recharging. reducing fuel cells and extending service life is an important task that needs to be tackled jointly by the public, private and scientific sectors. i hope that the clearer funding rules in this sector will encourage more rapid scientific progress towards making electric cars accessible to everyone.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. quality auditing is essential for economic stability and confidence in markets, as it guarantees the financial soundness of companies. at the beginning of the crisis, excessive risk-taking by financial institutions was strongly linked to inflexible, inadequate and ineffective control and risk management mechanisms, in particular in systemically important financial institutions. i agree that there should be a debate at eu level on strengthening the role of audit committees in all financial institutions, and that international auditing standards (ias) should be adopted as a matter of urgency, as this would help harmonise audits at european level and facilitate the task of the supervisory authorities. the commission should also take appropriate action to ensure a level playing field for all undertakings operating in the audit market and to reduce the complexity of audit-related provisions at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because quality auditing is essential for economic stability and confidence in markets, as it guarantees the financial soundness of companies. the european parliament welcomes the green paper on auditing published by the european commission, but calls on the commission to examine how the auditor's task can be extended to include the audit of risk information provided by the audited entity, without interfering with the verification of information provided in the main financial statements. parliament also supported the commission's urgent adoption of international auditing standards (ias), which would help harmonise audits at european level and facilitate the task of the supervisory authorities. given the importance of preserving the independence of the auditor, parliament calls on the commission to examine how banks and other financial institutions apply restrictive conditions to companies in loans and other financial products that may limit the choice of the auditor. it also proposes that the commission examine the possibility of introducing a quality certificate for audit firms and a quality register to demonstrate that the activities of medium and small audit firms can be satisfactory. the european commission should also consider the extent to which the creation of a european audit market would reduce the complexity and costs of procedures for all market participants, in particular small and medium-sized audit firms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft resolution because it seeks to strengthen the audit of financial institutions. the recent financial crisis has raised doubts about the work of the auditor. financial institutions took too much risk and this was strongly linked to the existence of flexible, inadequate and ineffective control and risk management mechanisms, especially in systemically important financial institutions. quality auditing is essential for economic stability and confidence in markets, as it guarantees the financial soundness of companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to apply a stricter audit regime to financial institutions. it should be noted that quality auditing guarantees the financial stability of companies and therefore has a significant impact on economic stability and confidence in markets. i believe that the establishment of international standards on auditing is appropriate, as the use of different standards creates a high risk of legal uncertainty. it is also essential to ensure that audits carried out in small and medium-sized enterprises are adapted to the specific characteristics of these enterprises by applying simplified audit rules. i support the proposal to strengthen the requirements for audit reports of financial institutions by including disclosure requirements for less liquid assets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation of women approaching retirement age, as older women face at least two types of discrimination in the labour market, based on gender and age. it is important to note that women represent at least 50% of the population of any eu country and therefore form an important part of the labour force. europe also has the highest percentage of older women in the world. i therefore support the call in the resolution for the commission and the member states to take appropriate and effective action to combat discrimination, including the change of gender and age stereotypes, and to promote solidarity between generations. i believe that member states should strive to integrate the gender dimension as effectively as possible in the design and implementation of pension reform, promote a more equal calculation of contributions for male and female pensions, promote actions to reduce the risk of poverty, take measures to address the poverty that older people are currently experiencing, improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of health care and end the practice of mandatory retirement, and address discrimination by enabling older women to participate in the labour market. i also support the other important call in the resolution for the commission and the member states to implement appropriate policies to reconcile work, family and private life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. europe has the highest percentage of older women in the world. older women face at least two types of discrimination in the labour market based on gender and age, and are more vulnerable in the labour market due to the career trajectory of women. the commission and the member states are encouraged to make full and effective use of existing eu instruments and programmes, including the european social fund and the european regional development fund, to increase the participation of older women in the labour market and to combat discrimination against older women in all areas. member states should also improve the provision of quality care services, including home care for older people, in order to ensure the availability and affordability of quality care services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the gender gap in terms of social and economic status is most deeply rooted in the traditional division of roles between the sexes, where men are considered responsible for the maintenance of the family and women for unpaid housework and care of family and relatives, which has a major impact on women's opportunities, compared to men, to obtain social guarantees, such as the right to a pension, and therefore on their situation in old age, especially in the event of divorce, separation or orphanhood. in addition, women's careers are more likely to be slower, shorter and/or interrupted by maternity leave or caring for elderly, disabled family members, and they earn less on average than men, as there is still a pay gap for the same work, and as a result women receive lower pensions and are at increased risk of poverty in old age. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to adopt without delay a comprehensive and multi-faceted approach to employment and social policy, including gender equality and age, in order to ensure the employment and social inclusion of women. calls on the commission and the member states to also make a thorough assessment of the situation of the older generation of women currently in poverty and to take appropriate and effective measures to end poverty among these women as soon as possible;
in writing. − i have supported this document as it calls on member states to mainstream the gender perspective in the design and implementation of pension reform (this aspect should also be taken into account in the forthcoming white paper on the pension system and in the implementation of other social policy reforms), to promote a more equal calculation of contributions to male and female pensions, to promote actions to reduce the risk of poverty, to take measures to address the poverty problem currently faced by older people, to improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of (health) care services and to end the practice of mandatory retirement, and to address discrimination in the access of older women to the labour market.
in writing. − i believe that all member states should always take a gender perspective into account when designing and implementing pension reforms. in addition, the calculation of insurance premiums must be equal. it is essential that actions and measures are promoted and implemented at eu, regional and local level to reduce the risk of poverty, especially among older people. attention should be paid to the fact that everyone, regardless of gender or age, must be provided with adequate health care. i believe that the practice of compulsory retirement should be phased out, thus enabling older people, especially women, to remain active participants in the labour market.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that the time has come in the 21st century to tackle the gender gap, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). it is no secret that smes are the backbone of the european economy and the starting point for any larger business. the economic crisis that has hit the eu has also hit smes, particularly women workers. we're looking at social imbalances at the vm. only one in ten women decides to become an entrepreneur, while men are more than twice as active. this requires special attention to be given to women, for example in the creation of networks called 'ambassades', as is done in the 22 eu countries. women there share their experience, inspiring others to start their own businesses. it is necessary to promote women through various financial instruments: microfinance, funds from the eu structural funds. eu countries could share best practice on a regular basis to help women become more entrepreneurial. in the eu, about a third of new businesses are created by unemployed people, and women often have the necessary education, but lack confidence in their abilities. this is where the eu should be encouraging them, including through financial means. we can only hope for equality in the home if we ensure equality in the workplace.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this issue is currently directly relevant to lithuania, as my country recently raised the retirement age to 65. under the new legislation, the retirement age of lithuanian women will increase by four months each year until 2026. women play an active role in the lithuanian labour market. lithuanian women's employment (61%) is above the eu-27 average of 2%. even before the increase in the retirement age, the number of women aged 60-69 in employment is quite high. according to official statistics, the employment rate for women aged 60-64 is 29.3%. we need to do more to protect women over 50 from age and gender discrimination. the rapporteur recalls that the gender pay gap is much higher in older age than at the beginning of a career. we also need to address the issue of work-life balance and the lack of more flexible employment opportunities. in lithuania, half-time work is often not enough income to provide a decent living, compared to the eu average (31.5%). only 9.5% of lithuanian women work half-time. i agree with the rapporteur that additional training and the development of new skills could help older women to participate more actively in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. one of the main policy objectives of the european union in creating an area of freedom, security and justice is to ensure better access to justice. the 2008 directive on mediation in the member states aims to promote the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and ensuring a balance between mediation and judicial proceedings. it also lays down general principles to ensure that parties who use mediation in the european union can rely on clear basic legislation. i believe that there is a need to increase public awareness and understanding of mediation, to encourage companies to use mediation and to set requirements for the mediation profession, and to encourage national authorities to develop programmes to disseminate appropriate knowledge of alternative dispute resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to provide an assessment of the implementation of the european parliament's mediation directive in the member states. mediation as an alternative and flexible dispute resolution method primarily serves people as a cheaper, more flexible and faster dispute resolution procedure. this eu directive was intended to create a clear legal framework across the eu, based on common principles, and thus to ensure the predictability of the process. under this directive, a number of important developments have been implemented in the member states, such as the provision that a dispute settlement agreement reached through mediation is given the force of a judicial decision by the certification of one of the means chosen under national law by registration of such a decision in a court or by notarial certification. the european parliament report also welcomed measures taken by member states to encourage more use of out-of-court dispute resolution by providing financial incentives for those who opt for out-of-court dispute resolution, as well as by introducing mandatory pre-litigation mediation requirements.
in writing. − i have supported this document because it contains a number of good proposals for mediation in the member states, which would reduce the burden on courts and help to save both time and financial resources. member states have made good progress in implementing directive 2008/52/ec by 21 may 2011. and although member states have different regulatory approaches and some are lagging behind, many member states are not only complying with the requirements of the directive but are doing more than the directive itself requires. however, there is a need to increase awareness and understanding of mediation, and to take further action in the areas of education, increased awareness of mediation, encouragement of companies to use mediation and the setting of requirements for the profession of mediator. national public authorities should be encouraged to develop programmes to disseminate appropriate knowledge on alternative dispute resolution, with the aim of informing lawyers and representatives of business enterprises, in particular smes, and academic institutions, of the main benefits of mediation, such as costs, the proportion of successfully resolved disputes and the more efficient use of time. it is also important to establish common standards for the acquisition of the profession of mediator in order to promote better quality in mediation and to ensure high standards of training and accreditation throughout the european union.
in writing. − in the european union, the number of cases before the courts is increasing in order to ensure effective protection of citizens' rights. the court of justice has also been called upon to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the new legal framework, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the long-established alternative to litigation is mediation, which helps to resolve the problems mentioned above. unfortunately, due to various procedural problems, the rules governing the mediation process vary from one member state to another. the commission has therefore taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. this will help to speed up the protection of citizens' rights across the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because a high culture of conflict resolution must be established throughout the european union. the focus must now be on a mediation procedure that ensures the principles of voluntariness and confidentiality. i believe that the public, business entities, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, should be made as aware as possible of the adr procedure and its benefits and advantages. companies should be encouraged to make the widest possible use of mediation services for the settlement of disputes between them. in order to ensure the smooth, efficient and high-quality functioning of the intermediation institution, requirements for the profession of intermediary and high standards of qualification and accreditation should be established throughout the eu.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because, in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 378/2007 in the member states concerned, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission. implementing powers relating to ensuring the integration of voluntary modulation into rural development programming and ensuring the financial management of voluntary modulation should be exercised in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. implementing powers should be conferred on the commission in respect of ensuring the integration of voluntary modulation into rural development programming and ensuring the financial management of voluntary modulation. the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system, which was based on the classical comitology procedures (consultative, management, regulatory) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. that system is replaced by a two-tier system, consisting of delegated and implementing acts (under the old system parliament had a veto) and conferring implementing and enforcement powers on the commission. the existing legislation must therefore be adapted to this new legal reality.
in writing. − we must make every effort to ensure that the rules for the implementation of the provisions of the regulation on voluntary modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy are applied in a uniform manner. to this end, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission to ensure the integration of voluntary modulation into rural development programming and to ensure the financial management of voluntary modulation. it should be noted that the replacement of the old comitology system with a new one based on two stages requires, in particular, a thorough analysis, an assessment of its potential effects, opportunities and threats. it is also essential to ensure that the commission properly implements the implementing and enforcement powers conferred on it.
in writing. − export credit agencies collectively constitute the world's largest source of official financial support for private sector projects. the amount of export credit guarantees granted by the export credit agencies of the eu member states in 2004-09 amounts to eur 468 billion. export credit agencies facilitate legitimate trade where the private capital market is weak. their risk-adaptation capacity is much higher than that of private entities, since they do not have to pay taxes and receive profits, and therefore have a much greater margin of manoeuvre than private banks in order not to incur losses on the loans granted. for the same reason, export credit agencies are liable to cause significant distortions of trade if their financial operations are not regulated by common rules. i have endorsed this important document and the proposals contained therein, which establish reporting requirements to control the reliability of the financial operations of european export credit agencies, introduce a procedure for transparency requirements and provide for an obligation to report on social and environmental risk assessments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i agree that the proper allocation of export credits from the export credit agency (eca) can ensure greater market access for union enterprises, including small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). in view of the intensification of competition on world markets and in order to avoid adverse effects on the competitiveness of union enterprises, the commission should, on the basis of the negotiating mandate granted by the member states, support the oecd's efforts to establish contacts with non-participating parties. the commission should conduct bilateral and multilateral negotiations with a view to establishing common standards for officially supported loans. common standards in this field are a prerequisite for ensuring a level playing field in global trade.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, in order to mitigate the impact of the current economic and financial crisis, credit systems must operate in a transparent manner and it is necessary to limit market distortions and ensure a level playing field for all market participants. efforts should also be made to implement an effective control mechanism to ensure that firms are financially sound and thus to facilitate public support by export credit agencies. it should be noted that the role of the credit agency is of great importance for the development of world trade. in addition, these export credit agencies have become the largest source of official financial assistance to developing countries. they provide businesses with greater access to private sector-backed credit services, complement private sector-backed funds and insurance, and create more job opportunities by supporting exports and investment. given the importance of these agencies, it is therefore necessary to ensure that they operate in a transparent manner and that bribery and corruption are prevented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. fair access to raw materials and stable and predictable prices are essential for the development of european industry, its competitiveness, innovation and survival. resource policy and resource diplomacy are of crucial importance to the eu not only in terms of industrial policy and international trade, but also in general terms of the various areas of domestic and foreign and security policy. i agree that action is needed to decouple economic growth from increased resource use, which would help reduce dependence on imports. it is necessary to invest in research, technological development and innovation and to exploit the potential of public procurement to promote the use of resource-efficient products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the raw materials supply industry in europe is increasingly at a disadvantage. the countries of the european union do not have many of the raw materials they need, so they are forced to import them from other countries. it is essential that the european union establishes partnerships with countries in eastern europe, latin america or asia that have valuable raw materials or minerals. the partnership with china is also expected to grow in the future, as it controls 97% of the world's rare earth production and severely restricts its exports to other countries. these resources are crucial for the transition to a low-carbon economy and for mitigating future climate change. to do this, the european union needs to develop a strategy that identifies actions on key and essential raw materials and improves relations with resource-rich countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it sets out a range of measures to reduce consumption, increase organic processing and increase exports, in order to maintain competition and reduce the price of raw materials. the eu needs a strong industrial base, which, as it becomes greener, is highly dependent on the supply of the right raw materials to make the transition to a low-carbon economy and to remain competitive. the complexity of administrative procedures and the lack of coordination between the management authorities sometimes lead to mineral permits being issued with a delay of several years; as this delay is unreasonably long, it increases the cost of capital invested and puts small and medium-sized enterprises out of the market. the eu is heavily dependent on imports of many raw materials, especially key raw materials. the scarcity of resources may worsen the international political situation and lead to a resource war and a widening gap between high- and low-resource countries. no one would benefit from that scenario. it is therefore necessary to develop a new approach to non-energy and non-agricultural raw materials, in particular those identified as being of primary importance, in order to address the issue in an innovative and innovation-driven way, in order to ultimately avoid a game in which there can only be winners and losers. alongside its industrial innovation strategy, which aims to reduce consumption and increase recycling in addition to the sustainable local potential of the eu, the eu will of course continue to rely on external suppliers of its raw materials. this is why diplomacy on raw materials is of particular importance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union needs a coherent and effective raw materials strategy to help boost growth and create jobs. the eu needs to strengthen its supply of raw materials, improve their efficiency and meet the needs of industry and the raw materials sector, especially now that global demand for raw materials is increasing. i support the proposal to the commission to establish a mechanism for the accumulation of rare earth elements, which would ensure that european companies, especially smes, have access to strategic materials and be protected from monopoly pressure and price increases. it is important to note that fair access to raw materials and stable prices will ensure the competitiveness of eu industry, environmental efficiency and innovation. in this context, the commission must constantly monitor the elimination of export and import restrictions and trade-distorting measures.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, mineral products and other raw materials account for up to 30% of lithuania's imports and exports, and so the shortage of raw materials is a very serious problem for my country. unfavourable raw material prices are holding back lithuania's export growth. according to a swedbank study published last month, rising commodity prices are also having a significant impact on high inflation in lithuania. the strong growth in raw material prices also means that the construction sector in lithuania will face difficulties in 2011. construction companies go bankrupt every month. it is time for the eu to develop an industrial innovation strategy to promote sustainability and security of energy supply. i agree with the rapporteur that the green paper is a positive first step. eu industry must use raw materials more efficiently by working with international suppliers. we should also promote mineral exploration and exploitation, particularly through eu programmes in the dg for research and innovation. the future of eu industry depends heavily on non-energy, non-agricultural raw materials. this is our chance to turn a challenge into an opportunity for european industry and for our own countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the main objective of this report is to lay the foundations for the medium and long-term development of the black sea fisheries. the black sea region is of major economic, social and political importance. following the example of the baltic sea organisation, a black sea regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) should be established to monitor the state of fish stocks throughout the black sea and, on the basis of scientific advice, to establish quotas for all countries in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the ecological balance and fish stocks in the black sea have been severely reduced. this has resulted in illegal, unregulated and undeclared fishing in the black sea. restoring the ecosystem and increasing fish stocks is only possible through active cooperation between the eu and the black sea states. the black sea borders six countries, only two of which are members of the european union. it is therefore essential that the remaining countries strengthen their cooperation with each other and start to respect the principles of the common fisheries policy of the european union in order to improve the protection of the black sea basin and to address the problems effectively. in order to preserve the fisheries in the black sea, it is planned to establish a regional fisheries management organisation comprising all the black sea states and the european union. it is also necessary to take into account that it may be difficult to persuade non-eu countries to negotiate and to enter into political agreements. the future of the black sea depends on this and mutual cooperation is essential to achieve positive results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because of the need to create a strong, stable and sustainable fisheries sector at european level, and in particular for the black sea, to provide for a specific policy to protect fish stocks, improve their status and ensure that the black sea fisheries sector is adapted to the specificities of the black sea region. the fisheries sector must be managed in a manner that ensures ecosystem suitability and sustainability, the development of legal fisheries and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to develop an effective policy, adapted to the specificities of the black sea region, which will help to conserve fisheries resources and ecosystems. it should be noted that the black sea is an important fishing region, but the state of most fish stocks is poor. regional action is needed to help them recover. in particular, the commission must maintain a permanent dialogue with the non-eu black sea littoral states. sustainable development must also be promoted through fisheries management, cutting-edge research and technology, data collection and the assessment of fisheries resources in the black sea region. i believe that new ways and opportunities should be explored to ensure the sustainable and responsible use of fisheries resources and to promote sustainable, competitive and diverse aquaculture in this region. only by working together can we ensure that the european fisheries sector is strong, stable and sustainable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas in the european union is extracted from the high seas. the oil-drilling accidents of recent years have prompted all operators involved in offshore oil and gas exploration and production to reassess the safety of their industry. i agree with the need to develop a strong safety culture by involving workers on the high seas in health and safety initiatives, to provide rigorous training in disaster management scenarios, to develop site-specific emergency plans and to ensure through appropriate regulation that operators have sufficient financial resources to compensate for the damage caused.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the growing importance of offshore oil and gas exploration and production, where accidents could cause serious damage to the member states of the european union. more than 90% of oil and about 60% of gas in the european union is extracted from the high seas, with the north sea being the largest source of oil and gas. the tragedy of the 2010 oil spill in the gulf of mexico was the largest in the world, with catastrophic consequences for people and the environment. one reason for the accident was that the company responsible for the oil exploitation did not have adequate insulation equipment. in order to ensure safety in the european union, it is necessary to designate an authority which should approve the safety evidence documents before any action relating to the extraction of gas or oil resources is taken. strict safety control requirements should be applied to the oil extraction industry worldwide to avoid future harmful effects and to ensure environmental protection.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the department of home affairs should develop a method based on the risk assessment of active operations, applicable to specific installations, operations and environments, similar to the 'safety proof' method used in the north sea. 'safety evidence' is a risk-based, site-specific approach whereby operators must demonstrate to the relevant national health, safety and environmental authorities that all hazards have been addressed and the necessary control measures have been put in place. before any operation is started, the safety evidence documents and any subsequent amendments thereto should be approved by the relevant authority. pre-drilling checks ensure that activities are not carried out automatically and that operations are not started without risk assessment and mitigation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to address a number of pressing issues concerning the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration and production. first of all, it is essential to ensure the effective functioning of the polluter pays principle. it is therefore appropriate to require undertakings wishing to engage in activities related to oil and gas exploration and production to demonstrate that they have sufficient financial resources to implement that principle. i agree with the proposal that stopping new deepwater oil drilling in all eu waters would be an illogical, hasty, disproportionate step towards ensuring high safety standards throughout the eu. decision-making and regulation in offshore oil exploration and production activities should take into account existing best practices and implement principles to control coastal hazards. i believe that a transparent, consistent and effective set of rules should be in place at eu level for all workers in the offshore sector. in view of the nature and the risks of the work of workers in this sector and in order to avoid human error as much as possible, workers should be covered by insurance which is proportionate to the risks they face.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on women entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises. in the business world, people who own their own businesses are often more dedicated to their work than employees, and they sacrifice their personal lives to stay competitive. women entrepreneurs face an even greater risk because they have to overcome discrimination in a traditionally male environment. many of these women have to juggle their business successes with family responsibilities. women are now an important part of the workforce in the member states. i agree with the rapporteur that we should get positive momentum through the sharing of best practice. this could be done through a women's business development agency, which would coordinate the women's representatives from each member state. the agency would work with national governments to promote, support and sustain projects for women. the approach of banks to women entrepreneurs is also very important. some banks already have systems in place to help women start businesses, and indeed recognize the unique approach of women to work. i agree with the rapporteurs that all financial institutions should adopt this best practice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that member states must have policies to help women achieve a good work-life balance. it is essential to establish an appropriate childcare infrastructure to allow women to enter the labour market more quickly and flexibly. the establishment of adequate childcare facilities is necessary as their lack of affordability, accessibility and quality creates additional obstacles for women who want to work or start a business.
in writing. − i voted for this report because men and women have unequal opportunities to manage and develop businesses and because empowering women entrepreneurs is a long-term process that requires time to change societal structures and attitudes. while women have always been entrepreneurs, certain rules and traditional roles have not always allowed them to choose the entrepreneurial path, and therefore it is necessary to encourage member states to carry out national campaigns, including various events and seminars, to better inform women about the use of the european microfinance facility progress and to inform them about all the funding opportunities offered under this facility. the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to promote the participation of women in the mainstream business community, i.e. local chambers of commerce, lobby groups and industrial organisations, as this would enable them to develop and strengthen their competitive business skills. calls on the chambers of commerce to actively encourage women entrepreneurs to participate in their activities and to promote the establishment of dedicated services and representative groups for women entrepreneurs, which would empower them and help promote an entrepreneurial culture; in addition, the commission should organise a campaign to support women's professional activity by encouraging them to take up entrepreneurship, while informing them of the available measures to facilitate the taking up of economic activities.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this document because equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of the eu, enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and because inequality between women and men in entrepreneurship and decision-making still persists. i believe that member states should have policies to help women achieve a good work-life balance and to create appropriate childcare facilities, as the lack of affordability, accessibility and quality of these facilities creates additional obstacles for women who want to start a business.
in writing. − the free market system gives all citizens, regardless of their gender, the opportunity to achieve economic independence. it is therefore essential to establish effective mechanisms to ensure the implementation of effective gender equality policies. it is worth noting that smes are emerging as a tool for women to achieve economic independence. in this context, member states should provide more funding opportunities for business entities, in particular for women-owned small and medium-sized enterprises, in a fair and equitable manner. the public needs to be better informed about the european microfinance facility progress, its implementation possibilities and its benefits. in order to increase women's entrepreneurial opportunities, member states should develop specific national education programmes, implement cross-border cooperation programmes, and encourage women's participation in the main business communities. women must be encouraged to participate actively in the labour market, thereby creating favourable conditions for reconciling work and private life.
for the efd group it is indeed a good thing that the european union institutions have turned their attention to one of the most important problems facing consumers in recent times. of course, i am talking about electricity and gas prices. in the context of the economic crisis, the price of electricity becomes an important incentive for all consumers to survive and overcome further economic difficulties. the higher and more recently speculative prices of energy commodities are causing frustration in both the business community and household consumers. for these reasons, and in order to put energy suppliers in a position where they cannot abuse their dominant position, i support the provisions in the regulation that penalties for infringements should take account not only of the seriousness of the infringements and the profits made, but also of the damage caused to consumers. i think that this should include the various possible disruptions in energy supply which could arise from political differences between individual countries. some european countries have experienced this and lithuania is one of them. therefore, safeguards are necessary in the regulation to prevent such cases from recurring.
in writing. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the principle of transparency enshrined in the treaty has become a legally binding fundamental right of citizens. this means that eu decisions must be taken as openly as possible and as intelligibly as possible for citizens, especially since the perception and access of our citizens to the activities of the european union and the documents it adopts are linked to the evaluation of the eu's overall activities and to their confidence in its work. transparency and openness to the public are particularly necessary in order to strengthen democratic principles and respect for fundamental rights. it is also the best way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement. i would like to emphasise that such decisions to deny citizens access to documents of the eu institutions must be based on clearly and rigorously defined exceptions, duly explained and justified, so that citizens understand the negative response and make effective use of the remedies available to them. the european parliament has already done a lot of work in this area, but all eu institutions need to work together to develop more transparent freedom of information rules that take due account of the proposals in this report, the latest case law of the court of justice and the new treaties. in order to fully ensure an open and continuous dialogue with citizens and their representative associations and to improve the practice of the institutions towards greater transparency, the council and the commission should negotiate with parliament with a view to adopting a new regulation on the right of access to documents.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the lisbon treaty introduced a new constitutional framework for eu institutional transparency to ensure an open, efficient and independent european administration by establishing a strict fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. transparency is a general principle and, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it has become a legally binding fundamental right of citizens. therefore, any decision to refuse access to documents must be based on clearly and explicitly defined exceptions. the right balance needs to be struck between transparency and data protection. data protection should not be 'abused', in particular for the purpose of resolving conflicts of interest. documents relating to international agreements, including those adopted by any body responsible for enforcing the application of such agreements, should be disclosed to the public, as the possibility of their being made public cannot be categorically excluded. access to them should be refused only in the event of a genuine threat to international relations. the parliament, which is elected by eu citizens under the treaties, plays an institutional role in representing the public interest. it is necessary to ensure that the new prerogatives conferred on parliament in the field of international agreements are fully respected and that no bilateral agreements concluded with third countries may prohibit this.
in writing. europe is facing a very difficult period today, one in which it is necessary to manage the current situation and find the political momentum to invest in the growth of today's and tomorrow's economies. europe is also facing a deep crisis of political confidence, which will require a much greater concentration of wisdom and political will than before. this is what our citizens expect from the eu institutions and from their national governments. the difficult situation in some euro area countries should not be used as a pretext for a two-speed europe and prevent economic growth in a united, coherent and cohesive way in the member states and the eu as a whole. we must realise that only more effective and rigorous governance of the economies of the 27 member states can ensure deeper integration, greater social guarantees for our citizens and greater confidence in the european union itself.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation is of particular importance to the european union in the context of the process of liberalising the gas and electricity markets. in this context, one aspect is important to note. in order to ensure the functioning of a single and transparent energy market in the european union, we need to ensure that the rules we adopt apply equally and without exception to all actors in the eu energy market, regardless of their true origin. market surveillance authorities should ensure that the final entity behind a transaction is identified and subject to eu law. unfortunately, there are still situations where third-country entities, in particular gazprom, have a real dominant or even monopoly position in one or another member state, but as they do so not only directly but also through controlled undertakings, the rules ensuring market transparency do not apply to them. i therefore welcome this report and call on the commission to further improve the rules governing the energy market in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting financial aid to austria. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. in austria, workers were laid off due to globalisation and major structural changes in the production of mobile phones and devices, which was relocated to asia. austria indicates that the production of printed circuit boards decreased by almost 11% in 2008, compared to a decrease of 5,4% in china and 4,8% in the rest of the world. as a result, in november 2008, at&s decided to move all of its printing plate production from leoben to shanghai, resulting in 603 redundancies in leoben between november 2008 and december 2009, and the closure of the at&s plant in fondorf, some 50 km from leoben, resulting in the loss of 200 jobs that required support.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 11 march 2010, austria submitted an application to mobilise the egf, following redundancies in at&s, a company active in the leoben area in the region of eastern upper styria, specialising in the production of printed circuit boards. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to allocate an amount of eur 1 221 128.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting financial aid to austria. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 9 march 2010, austria submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 54 enterprises active in the production of base metals. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 8 284 908.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 9 march 2010, austria submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 54 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 24 'manufacture of base metals' in the nuts ii regions of steiermark (at22) and lower austria (niederösterreich) adjacent to austria. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to allocate an amount of eur 8 284 908.
in writing. − the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary measures to provide additional support to workers who have suffered damage as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. each year, technical assistance may be granted at the initiative of the commission at a rate of 0,35% of the annual amount of the egf to finance the monitoring, information, administrative and technical support, audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation, including the provision of information and consultation on the use of the egf, monitoring and evaluation to the member states and the provision of information on the use of the egf to the european and national social partners. i agree with the commission's request to mobilise eur 610 000 in 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the commission's proposal to improve the collection, compilation and dissemination of information on the european globalisation adjustment fund and its support by creating a new database. in making this proposal, the commission hopes that mobilising the egf in this way will improve the efficiency of the management of the egf, which in turn will improve the functioning of the market. it should be noted that this is not the first time that the commission has submitted such a proposal to the budgetary authority this year, and that under the interinstitutional agreement which entered into force on 17 may 2006, it was decided that a maximum of eur 500 million could be allocated to this purpose. the main funding would be for monitoring, information, administrative and technical assistance, database creation, exchange of best practices between member states and evaluation.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 provides that each year 0.35% of the annual ceiling may be allocated to technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. i therefore supported the commission's proposal for an amount of eur 610 000. following the commission's proposal, this amount should be used to finance the following activities: monitoring activities commission will collect data on applications received and accepted, as well as on measures proposed and implemented, and will update and publish a publication on egf statistics; information activities egf website will be regularly updated and expanded, as well as translated into all official eu languages. a press release will be issued and the annual report of the egf will be prepared, translated, published and disseminated. the general awareness of the egf and its visibility will be increased; the commission will establish standardised procedures for the egf applications and their processing for the establishment of a database. this will allow for simplification of applications, faster processing and easy reporting for different purposes; two meetings of the expert group on egf persons relations, one from each member state, making a total of 27 members, will be organised for administrative and technical assistance; exchange of best practices between member states; evaluation the mid-term evaluation activities of the egf, as set out in article 17 (1) (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, have been allocated from the 2010 budget. the final evaluation of the egf will not start until 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting financial aid to the netherlands. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. the netherlands requested aid for 800 redundancies in 52 enterprises active in the printing and recorded media sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 2 649 148.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 20 december 2010, the netherlands submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 52 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and printing of recorded media) in the nuts ii regions of south holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31). this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to allocate an amount of eur 2 649 148.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting financial aid to the netherlands. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. the netherlands requested aid for 199 redundancies in 14 enterprises active in the printing and recorded media sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 667 823.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the netherlands submitted an application on 20 december 2010 to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 14 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and printing of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of north brabant (nl41) and supplemented it by further information up to 7 march 2011. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to allocate an amount of eur 667 823.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting financial aid to the netherlands. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. the netherlands requested aid for 214 redundancies in 9 enterprises active in the printing and recorded media sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 718 140.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the netherlands submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in nine enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and printing of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21) in the netherlands on 20 december 2010 and supplemented it with further information up to 7 march 2011. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to mobilise an amount of eur 718 140.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting financial aid to the netherlands. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. the netherlands requested aid for 551 redundancies in 26 enterprises active in the printing and recorded media sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 1 849 086.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf has been extended from 1 may 2009, it is possible to grant aid to workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the netherlands submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 26 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and printing of recorded media) of the nuts ii regions of north holland (nl 32) and flevoland (nl 23) in the netherlands on 20 december 2010 and supplemented it by additional information up to 3 march 2010. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to allocate an amount of eur 1 849 086.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. the commission proposal for a regulation (remit energy market integrity and transparency regulation) is an eu legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector (gas and electricity). unfair practices in the wholesale energy market affect the price level. such practices may result in significant price volatility, increase energy prices for end-users (citizens and businesses) and reduce the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects. transparency of energy markets is a necessary condition for further integration of the eu energy market, which should bring great benefits to consumers. the regulation prohibits market abuse consisting of trading on the basis of inside information and market manipulation in the wholesale energy products (electricity and gas). i agree that the penalties for market manipulation should be uniform across the eu to prevent companies that violate remit from establishing themselves in the member states with the least severe sanctions. i support the call that the commission should present proposals for further harmonisation of sanctions and for minimum requirements for sanctions at eu level by the end of 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to prevent the concealment of energy production capacity and to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector. preventing abuse is also crucial to enhance long-term confidence in the gas and electricity market. the abuse of the gas and electricity market in one of the member states of the european union has an impact not only on wholesale prices in other countries but also on retail prices for consumers and micro-enterprises. it is therefore essential that this issue be dealt with by a joint decision of the eu as a whole, rather than by individual member states. otherwise, there could be significant price fluctuations, higher energy costs for end-users and reduced investment in energy infrastructure. in some energy markets, conduct that undermines the integrity of the market is not currently prohibited in full and therefore requires strict action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it aims to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector (gas and electricity). the regulation prohibits market abuse, which consists of trading on the basis of information which has not been made public (articles 1 (1) and 3) and market manipulation (articles 2 (2) and 4) in the wholesale energy products (electricity and gas). it requires market participants to disclose information which has not been made public (article 4 (4)). the main body for monitoring the transactions market is the recently established agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). article 7 of the regulation requires market participants to provide the agency with data on their transactions in wholesale energy products. the agency shall monitor these data and report annually to the european commission (article 6). the agency shall share the information it receives with other authorities, in particular with national regulatory authorities and with the financial and competition authorities of the member states (article 8). the eu-wide penalties for market manipulation should be uniform in order to prevent undertakings that infringe remit from establishing themselves in the member states with the least severe sanctions. the commission should therefore submit proposals for further harmonisation of sanctions and for minimum requirements for sanctions at eu level by the end of 2012.
in writing. − energy is a highly relevant topic in the eu and especially for its energy island, of which lithuania is a part. this document calls for the creation of a single eu electricity and gas network, managed by brussels. increased eu involvement in the management of energy networks should protect eu citizens from sudden price spikes and ensure greater stability in the supply of energy resources to consumers. the document also calls for the identification of the energy laws of the countries concerned, thereby facilitating trade in this sector. the implementation of these proposals would bring lithuania and all the baltic states into the eu's single energy grid and reduce their vulnerability to energy blackmail. all this would also encourage internal competition between energy suppliers, which should have a positive impact on the price of electricity and gas on the market.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon entered into force on 1 december 2009, introducing a number of new legal frameworks aimed at simplifying the implementation, application and enforcement of eu legislation. article 17 of the treaty on european union confers on the commission the primary role of guardian of the treaties. in this context, the commission has the power and duty to initiate infringement procedures against a member state which is not complying with its obligations under the treaties, including its obligations regarding fundamental human rights. this 27th annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law showed that, despite the decline in the number of infringement cases opened by the commission, 2 900 complaints and infringement cases had been examined by the end of 2009 and that in more than 50% of cases member states continued to delay the transposition of the provisions of the directives into national law. i believe that this is not a satisfactory situation and that the commission should be more transparent in the conduct of the infringement procedures initiated and inform eu citizens as soon as possible, by appropriate means, of the steps taken to meet their requests. i agree that the commission should set a deadline for the member states to comply with the judgments of the court of justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's assessment of the commission's role as guardian of the eu treaties. this is the 27th annual report by the european parliament on the commission's supervisory role in the member states. the first stage of this infringement procedure is one of the areas of direct interaction between europe and eu citizens, where citizens turn to the commission and parliament for help in exercising their european rights. it is therefore essential that complainants are treated in accordance with the principle of good administration. the report thus points out that, although the number of infringement procedures decreased in 2009, the situation remains unsatisfactory, and that this is mainly the fault of the member states, which are slow to transpose eu law into their national law. the european parliament also calls on the commission to ensure greater transparency in the process of dealing with citizens' complaints and asks the commission to propose a deadline within which member states should comply with the court of justice's judgments.
in writing. − this report assesses the commission's monitoring of the implementation of eu law in 2009. it focuses on the important role of the commission as guardian of the treaty and on the commission's powers and duty to initiate infringement proceedings against a member state which has failed to fulfil its obligations under the treaty. it reiterates that the infringement procedure consists of two stages: the administrative (investigative) stage and the judicial stage before the court of justice. the role of citizens (complainants) is crucial at the administrative stage, rather than ensuring compliance with union law. bringing europe closer to its citizens and good governance are closely linked. one of the areas of direct interaction between europe and eu citizens is the administrative phase, linked to article 258 tfeu, when citizens turn to the commission and parliament for help in exercising their european rights. it is therefore essential that complainants are treated in accordance with the principle of good administration. the rapporteur therefore calls on the commission to present a proposal in the form of a regulation on procedural law on the basis of the new legal basis provided for in article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in order to better ensure citizens' rights and transparency. the procedural law would in no way restrict the commission's freedom of action, but would only ensure that the commission, in the exercise of its powers, respects the principle of an open, efficient and independent european administration, as set out in article 298 tfeu and article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the public's right of access to documents for 2009/2010. citizens are now demanding more democracy, transparency, openness of institutions and political actors and a stronger fight against corruption, so access to documents and information is one way to ensure citizens' participation in the democratic process, the prevention of corruption and the fight against it. it is important to note that, in order to ensure the accountability and legitimacy of a democratic political system, citizens have the right to know how their representatives, elected or appointed to public institutions, or persons representing member states at european or international level, operate, how the decision-making process takes place (reviewing documents, amendments, schedules, actors involved, votes cast, etc.), how taxpayers' money is distributed and allocated, and what the results of its use are. i therefore support this resolution and believe that the eu should be the first to show the member states and third countries the example of transparency of institutions and modern democracy.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the treaty of lisbon established a new constitutional framework for the transparency of the eu institutions, with the aim of making the european administration open, efficient and independent, by establishing a strong fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. this right is granted by the treaty not only to eu citizens but also to any natural or legal person established in an eu member state and should be exercised in accordance with the general principles and limits (protection of certain public or private interests) laid down in the regulations of the european parliament and of the council. transparency is a legally binding fundamental right of citizens and therefore all decisions to refuse access to documents must be based on clear and strictly defined exceptions, duly explained and supported by logical arguments, so that citizens understand the negative answer and make effective use of the remedies available to them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because access to documents and information is one of the ways of ensuring citizens' participation in the democratic process and the prevention and fight against corruption. the treaty of lisbon establishes a new constitutional framework for the transparency of the institutions of the european union, with the aim of making the european administration open, efficient and independent, by establishing a strong fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the european parliament thus stresses that the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies currently lack coherent administrative law, e.g. there are no rules on administrative decisions subject to appeal, and therefore calls on the eu institutions to define a common eu administrative law as a matter of urgency. the european union should also be the first to show the member states and third countries the example of transparency of institutions and modern democracy. since the principle of transparency has already become a legally binding fundamental right of citizens, transparency at the level of the european union should be reflected in the actions of the member states when transposing eu legislation into national law. the european parliament therefore considers that the amendment of the regulation on public access to documents should strengthen the right of access to documents without in any way reducing the existing standards of protection of this right and should take account of the case law of the court of justice. in addition, the revised regulation should be simple and accessible to citizens in order to enable them to exercise their right more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because i believe that it is necessary to allow citizens access to documents as much as possible, and that if they are truly confidential, this must be justified by clearly and strictly defined exceptions. the decisions of the european union must be taken in a transparent and open manner and must be as understandable as possible to the citizens of the european union. this will strengthen democratic principles and respect for fundamental human rights. it is also the best way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that transparency is essential to ensure the accountability and legitimacy of a democratic political system. citizens have the right to know how and why political decisions are taken. lithuania is experiencing a crisis of public distrust due to a lack of transparency in its institutions. the courts in lithuania and europe have demonstrated their vulnerability to political manipulation. public confidence in the courts and local government remains low. according to a vilmorus survey, only 19% of lithuanian citizens trust the courts, compared to 35% a few years ago. according to the 'bertelsmann transformation index', the transparency of municipal decision-making is also not very high in lithuania. the city council acts are rarely found online, and decisions are usually only known after they have been adopted. it is important that our legislative and judicial processes are more transparent, accountable and accessible to the public. this report recalls that the treaty of lisbon has created a new constitutional framework for the transparency of the eu institutions, with the aim of making decision-making more open and efficient. all that's missing is the political will.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it draws attention to the commission's recently revised code of conduct for members of the commission and in particular its provisions on the financial declarations of members of the commission. it is decided to monitor the application of the new code of conduct for members of the commission on a regular basis in order to ensure that the european union achieves the highest standards of governance.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as aiming to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules, address the problems associated with the current imbalances in the trading system and use trade for sustainable development, while underlining the importance of economic integration of developing countries, especially the least developed countries, in the belief that a multilateral system based on fairer rules will facilitate fair and free trade for the development of all continents.
in writing. − i support the provisions of this resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the doha development agenda. i believe that comprehensive and balanced results will only be achieved if the negotiations on all the areas currently under discussion are concluded. given the particular importance of the wto as part of global economic governance to the world, we must make every effort to ensure that any wto reform agenda is considered, analysed and discussed with the principles of transparency and sufficient time for consultation to involve all members and other stakeholders. it is important to note that in order to ensure economic growth and poverty reduction worldwide, it is essential that all wto members continue to contribute to the comprehensive, balanced development of the wto. it is therefore essential to ascertain whether the changed economic circumstances since the start of the doha round are not an obstacle to the achievement of the initial objectives of the doha round. i support the proposal to encourage the developed and advanced countries to support the participation of the least developed countries in this negotiating process. i think market access is not the only solution for many of the poorer countries, because they don't have the real opportunity to take advantage of that access. it is also essential that the eu continue to favour the multilateral trading system created by the wto, as bilateral and regional agreements are not the best option.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that the objective of better regulation in the eu is a continuous one and must be pursued on an ongoing basis. this objective is multi-faceted: reducing the administrative burden on individuals and businesses, thereby encouraging markets to work for people, a clear focus on public consultation, impact assessments, simplification of existing legislation. in addition to all these aspects, the report also assesses how better regulation is implementing the two core principles of the european union's functioning - subsidiarity and proportionality - which national parliaments have become actively involved in overseeing since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. however, meps believe that the time limits within which national parliaments must carry out their work are often too short and that the ways in which documents submitted by national parliaments are incorporated into parliament's work still need to be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the current deadlines within which national parliaments have to carry out their work are often too short, especially when it comes to assessing whether the principle of subsidiarity is being respected. similarly, the replies of national parliaments shall be in a form which does not constitute reasoned opinions or objections to the principle of subsidiarity. it also draws attention to the fact that they are often presented to the european parliament only in the language used by the national parliament for the production of documents. it is therefore proposed that the secretary-general of parliament should examine how to improve the way in which documents submitted by national parliaments are incorporated into parliament's work.
in writing. − one of the reasons why we are failing to achieve our goal of making the eu more attractive and closer to citizens is the complexity of the legislative framework. at the moment, eu citizens do not feel that they have an impact on eu legislation: they cannot really implement the law, the relationship between the institutions is too complex, the time between the legislative initiative and the entry into force of the law is too long. i congratulate the rapporteur on addressing many of these aspects in his report. unfortunately, if we want the citizens of the member states to feel that they are also citizens of the eu, we must not only put these proposals into words, but also implement them.
in writing. − i support this resolution on better regulation, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and smart regulation, as the european union's legislative process must be continuously improved and perfected, the decision-making process must be brought as close as possible to the citizens. all european institutions must pay greater attention to the implementation of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when drafting legislation. it is also essential to ensure that all eu citizens are given the right conditions to make the most of their rights, so that they can have a greater say in eu policy in defence of their interests. it is therefore essential that the public is properly informed about the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. the proper implementation of this initiative will help the european union to get closer to its citizens and to properly implement the principles of direct democracy. the importance of national parliaments to the eu legislative process should be emphasised. national parliaments need to become more effective actors in the political process at both national and european levels. we must make every effort to tackle the democratic deficit and reduce the administrative burden by developing cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. it is very important to stress that only through the control of the subsidiarity principle can national parliaments have a real influence on the european parliament. in this context, i believe that longer time limits should be set to allow national parliaments to provide a more detailed analysis of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that citizens' participation in the decision-making process of the european union is essential and that the possibility for citizens to petition the european parliament is one of the expressions of such participation. in this report, parliament assesses the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010 and notes that, as in the past, the majority of petitions received last year related to the environment, fundamental rights, the internal market and justice, with a large geographical share of petitions relating to certain member states. however, the report regrets that the commission has not yet responded to the committee on petitions' repeated requests to inform the european parliament of the progress of the infringement procedures relating to petitions opened. parliament also proposes the immediate creation of a web portal for petitioners, which would include an interactive model for registering petitioners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because many petitioners turn to parliament to find solutions to issues outside the eu's competence, such as the implementation of national court decisions or the inaction of various public authorities, and seek to improve this situation by referring these complaints to the competent national or regional authorities. i welcome the new procedure for registering petitions established by the directorate-general for the presidency of the european parliament and the directorate-general for internal policies of the european union. the handling of petitions must be transparent: within parliament, by giving direct access to the petition archives to members through the e-petition system, by simplifying internal procedures and by closely cooperating with the member states, the chair and the secretariat of the committee on petitions, and outside parliament, by creating an interactive web portal for petitioners. the petitions procedure is important and provides specific powers to the committee responsible to seek and propose solutions and to defend eu citizens who petition the european parliament. it is necessary to promote citizen participation in the decision-making process of the european union in order to enhance the legitimacy and accountability of the european union.
in writing. − i became aware of the committee's work before becoming a member of the european parliament when, in 2007/08, i represented several tens of thousands of eu citizens who petitioned the ep on the environmental impact of the nord stream gas pipeline. the european parliament adopted a resolution on this petition in 2008 and the implementation of this resolution was examined by the committee on petitions only recently. i therefore support the call in the report for the commission to ensure the proper implementation of the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive, the strategic environmental assessment (sea) directive, the habitats directive and the birds directive in the member states on the basis of the recommendations of the responsible parliamentary committee. i would point out, however, that the commission has unfortunately not taken the european parliament's positions into account and has not taken the necessary action. it is therefore appropriate to initiate discussions in the future on even closer relations between the european parliament and the commission, especially when the parliament draws the commission's attention to breaches of eu law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu's strategy on homelessness. this is a very sensitive issue in the eu, as unemployment is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation and has increased in recent years in several eu member states. i support the call in the resolution for member states to make progress towards ending street homelessness by 2015. the european parliament calls for an ambitious, integrated eu strategy, based on national and regional strategies, which includes the long-term objective of ending homelessness in the context of a broader social inclusion agenda. it is particularly important that the eu strategy to combat unemployment goes beyond monitoring and reporting and provides actions to support the development of effective national and regional strategies to combat unemployment and coordinated efforts by member states to reduce unemployment in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because homelessness is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation and has increased in recent years in several member states of the european union. the european parliament therefore calls for a focus on promoting quality services for the homeless in the eu strategy to combat homelessness and calls on the european commission to develop a voluntary quality assurance system for social services, as set out in the communication on a european plan to combat poverty. it also calls for a strong link between the eu strategy to combat unemployment and the flows of eu funding, in particular from the structural funds. the european commission should encourage the use of the european regional development fund (erdf) funding instruments to provide housing for socially excluded groups. i would also like to stress the importance of the commission and the member states reaching an agreement and establishing a framework to monitor the development of national and regional strategies to combat unemployment, which form a key part of the eu strategy to combat unemployment. in addition, it should be ensured that the eu strategy to combat unemployment goes beyond monitoring and reporting and provides a package of actions to support the development and implementation of effective national and regional strategies to combat unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the problem of homelessness must be tackled in the various member states of the european union, as homelessness continues to affect people in all member states of the european union and is an unacceptable violation of human dignity. unemployment is also one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation, and its scale has increased in recent years in several european union countries. the implementation of the eu strategy to combat unemployment should fully respect the treaty of lisbon, which recognises the important role of national, regional and local authorities and the wide margin of manoeuvre in providing, commissioning or organising services of common economic interest that are as responsive as possible to the needs of consumers. i believe that it is up to the member states to define the conditions for affordable social housing and that the eu strategy to combat unemployment should be fully consistent with the member states' social housing policy, which legally enshrines the principle of promoting social diversity and combating social exclusion. the issue of unemployment has undoubtedly become one of the most pressing issues in the eu's social inclusion process and the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council must therefore consider how to develop an eu strategy to combat unemployment.
in writing. − i support this resolution because unemployment is a multifaceted problem that requires urgent solutions and effective, integrated strategies to combat it. it should be noted that homelessness is one of the most important priorities in the social field. it is an extreme form of poverty and social exclusion. i believe that both the eu and the member states need to develop and implement programmes to prevent homelessness. it is also essential to promote national initiatives and policy development to combat poverty and social exclusion. particular attention should be paid to those member states where the problem of homelessness is deep-rooted. they must be given support measures at european level, in particular financial assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this declaration, which calls on the european commission to find ways of providing shelter for 3 million homeless people in the eu by 2015. the economic crisis has exacerbated the situation of homelessness in the eu countries. homeless people are denied dignity, dignity, and they have difficulty raising their children to be good citizens. this is no longer acceptable in the 21st century. we need to integrate homeless people into the labour market and social society. more eu structural funds could be used for this. housing homeless people would save eu countries healthcare costs and reduce crime. although the proposed declaration is ambitious and raises doubts about the feasibility of its implementation, it cannot continue to accept the fate of homeless people: to freeze to death in the streets. after all, nearly 400 people die of colds each year in lithuania alone. this should concern all of us.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because tackling one of the biggest problems facing the world today - climate change - requires a change in the way energy is consumed and produced. it is scientifically proven that anthropogenic factors environmental factors, formed or strongly influenced by human activities contribute to climate change. urgent action is needed to limit the global average surface temperature rise to 2oc, to reduce ozone depletion, to reduce glacial melting and to start developing a strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. several urgent strategies have been developed to reduce emissions of sulphur and gases and to phase out the production and use of harmful chemical compounds over the next 5-10 years. the european union has also introduced a regulation which will ensure that vehicle emissions are strictly controlled at all times. however, the damage may be irreversible and urgent action is needed at european and international level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that not only in the eu but also globally, strict implementation of air pollution regulations and the deployment of available technologies to reduce nox and co emissions would reduce anthropogenic tropospheric ozone, which is the cause of the greenhouse effect. i believe that a comprehensive european climate policy is needed, taking into account all the factors of warming and the alternatives to mitigating its effects. in addition to considering how to reduce co2 emissions, attention should also be given to strategies that can respond to climate change in the fastest possible way.
in writing. − the european union has set itself ambitious targets to become a world leader in the fight against climate change. however, we must be aware that climate change is not only caused by carbon dioxide but also by anthropogenic pollutants. unfortunately, without a coherent strategy to reduce these pollutants, even by reducing co2, we are contributing to anthropogenic emissions. the eu's renewable energy strategy calls for at least a fifth of energy to come from renewable sources over the next 20 years. the specific characteristics of some member states mean that a large proportion of such resources is biomass, which is emitted by combustion of soot and other hazardous particles. we therefore need to consider the need for a single eu-wide strategy for all pollutants that affect the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to establish a comprehensive approach to anthropogenic pollutants that affect the climate. it should be noted that pollutants of anthropogenic origin are considered to be among the most dangerous for humans and animals. the commission and the member states must therefore take immediate action and develop as soon as possible a comprehensive european climate change policy and strategies to respond to climate change problems in an operational manner. in view of the dangers of these pollutants, technologies that can radically reduce emissions of soot and gases must be used in the eu and the use of the 'kirsk and burner' method must be banned.
madam president, we have already seen three changes of power in the arab world and the whole international community is waiting for a fourth one. the brutal response by the syrian government to the legitimate protests of its own people deserves the strongest possible condemnation, while president al-assad should face international criminal justice for his actions. allow me to offer my congratulations on the decision taken by the council almost two weeks ago to impose the ban on oil imports from syria, which account for almost a quarter of the syrian economy. unlike on some other issues, the eu member states managed to come up with a single position on these sanctions and this should be applauded. nevertheless, we must discuss other ways in which to force syria to stop the slaying of its own citizens. more intense negotiations must be carried out with key players on the syrian issue: russia and china, as permanent members of the united nations security council, and turkey, as the key power in the region, have the potential to influence significantly the course of events in syria.
mr president, a negotiated two-state solution, on the 1967 lines, is an optimum solution; a negotiated solution, not a unilateral declaration. many colleagues have mentioned this formula today and i fully agree with it. let us imagine that the resolution supporting a palestinian declaration is adopted in the united nations general assembly. even then, palestinians would not be able to avoid negotiating with israel if they wish to achieve peace. none of the core issues, including borders, jerusalem, refugees and water, will be resolved by a united nations resolution. at the same time, a strong and very clear signal should be sent to israel. tangible efforts towards negotiations and sustainable peace with the palestinian authority have to be made, and one of the areas in which visible progress has to be made is in stopping the expansion of settlements. visible progress and clear concessions are more than necessary.
in writing. the international community will not escape the blindness of a unilateral palestinian declaration. the european union must formulate a common position so that the member states speak with one voice both in the preparation of the un resolution and in the voting. however, the substance remains the same after the vote at the united nations. a lasting solution to this conflict will only be achieved through diplomatic means and bilateral negotiations. i think the palestinian leadership, which has done its homework, as it is acknowledged, is making a unilateral declaration, understanding that it can delay the resumption of negotiations, but seeking a path of collateral effects. i believe that the palestinians really want to create a functioning state, and that requires borders, a government, democratic governance and peaceful coexistence with their neighbors. the question remains how this state will govern both parts of palestine. gaza is controlled by hamas, openly hostile to the state of israel. changing the status quo at the united nations alone will not solve the problems, and the bypass roads are not just bilateral negotiations. the course of events after september 20 will depend greatly on israel's response. it is worrying that in the changing situation, israel's position is losing long-standing supporters and loyal allies are finding themselves increasingly isolated. israel has the right to defend itself against terrorist attacks, but settlement building is illegal and must be stopped immediately.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i am glad that the commission is supporting the starving people in africa, there was no other way to do it. our europe is christian, after all, and the values of charity, helping the weak and helping our neighbours are among its fundamental values. i think we need to support the self-sufficiency of food production in africa, as was discussed here, but also to think about the development of agriculture in europe itself, because unfortunately the system of direct subsidies is not well organized and the difference between individual countries is sometimes as much as six times and a lot of land even here in europe is getting worse, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe. there are millions of acres, and it may turn out that even with good intentions -- and i believe we always will -- in the event of some major natural disaster, we may not be able to help the hungry. so we need to think about food storage, and we need to monitor specific famines in neighboring countries so that we can provide immediate assistance.
i agree with those who have spoken before and i am convinced that europe must lead and create the best possible conditions for a competitive european knowledge economy characterised by vitality, change and innovation. a single internal market with a focus on services and the knowledge economy is essential for europe to lead the world economy. i therefore believe that the european union must maintain a united position on matters falling within its competence. the amendments to the radio regulations and the agenda for the 2015 conference will be adopted at the next conference on this subject. the commission shall ensure that this agenda is consistent with the position of the european parliament on the radio spectrum policy programme process and is in the interest of the international interests of the european union. a coordinated approach at european level is needed to ensure that we have sufficient radio spectrum to meet the strategic objectives of the european union. i also emphasise the principle of subsidiarity as one of the european union's fundamental principles for combining the powers of the member states with the competences of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to take account of people-to-people relations, their rights, democracy, respect for common principles, and the promotion of trust and stability in order to improve the partnership with the eastern countries. the parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on the european economic area, including the implementation of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the european economic area, and in the implementation of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the european economic area, including the implementation of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the european economic area, and the implementation of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the european economic area. stable economic relations and eu support would have a major positive impact on the long-term development of the republic of moldova: the future visa liberalisation process between moldova and the eu, the common airspace agreement, and other necessary reforms. negotiations on various aspects of cooperation have already been successfully concluded, but it was agreed that by the end of 2011 negotiations should also begin on enhanced cooperation in the area of large-scale free trade, while assessing the impact of such agreements on economic development and the environment. ensure that adequate funding is also allocated to the negotiations between transnistria, moldova, ukraine, russia, the osce, and the us and the european union as external observers, otherwise known as the 5+2 negotiations. this agreement would provide a comprehensive framework for assistance to the republic of moldova, promoting its economic growth and enabling it to meet its commitments to the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because it makes a number of recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement. the aim is to conclude an association agreement and, in particular, a wide-ranging free trade agreement on close cooperation. attention is drawn to the positive impact of the autonomous trade preferences granted to the republic of moldova in 2008 on its exports, while regretting that the benefit of the preferences is hampered by differences in standards between the two countries, which clearly need to be addressed. the republic of moldova needs to continue to promote the accelerated development of the country's economy.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament's initiative in providing recommendations for the negotiation of an association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova. moldova's consistent euro-integration policy and progress in domestic reforms must be assessed and supported in accordance with the principle of 'more for more'. the association agreement, which will take eu-moldova relations to a new level, is needed not only by moldova but also by the eu, which is contributing by concrete means to the creation of an area of stability, shared values and progress in the neighbourhood. in this context, a few points should be noted: the agreement reached on 9 september 2011 between the prime minister of moldova and the de facto leader of the breakaway transnistria, through the efforts of the osce chairperson-in-office lithuania and germany, is a long-awaited and important step in the resumption of negotiations that have been stalled since 2006. the eu should seize this positive moment and do all it can to support the relaunch of the negotiating process. the visa dialogue is an excellent instrument of cooperation to promote and implement reforms in moldova and to help manage migration flows. however, the ultimate objective is the abolition of the visa regime. progress towards this objective should be rapid and assessed in the context of the ongoing overall visa dialogues with other states in the region, and in particular with regard to the prospect of visa liberalisation between the eu and russia. i believe that more attention should be paid to the visibility and publicity of eu support in moldova. this would contribute to increasing public support for european reforms.
in writing. − moldova is an integral part of europe in geographical, political, economic and value-based terms. moldova is a great example of how the eu's magnetism is changing countries for the better. the country's administration has achieved some results in recent years in reforming the country's economy, political system, and in embedding eu values. we encourage her to continue her work. i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the guidelines which, if followed, would ensure further rapprochement between moldova and the eu. a more streamlined legal system, police, customs reform, the fight against corruption and improved business conditions would help the country achieve greater stability, open new avenues for economic cooperation between the eu and moldova, and promote bilateral negotiations on a free trade agreement. in the communication, we send a clear message that progress in the settlement of the transnistrian conflict will receive a positive eu response increased eu financial assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the situation in libya. the priority of the transitional national council (tnc) and the international community should be the return to normality in libya. the water and electricity supply, as well as the extraction of natural resources, should be restored to full capacity as fast as possible. an issue that cannot be overstated and that is common to all three countries that have seen recent changes in power is the threat of islamic extremism. there have been reports that former members of extremist organisations have been successful in integrating into the tnc and becoming part of the mainstream opposition to the old regime of colonel gaddafi. through our channels of influence, we should support moderate political forces and make efforts to prevent the tnc from turning into an islamic movement. last but not least, we must express very clearly to libya’s neighbours that the international community will not tolerate the sheltering of colonel gaddafi and his family members who are under prosecution by the international criminal court and that steps will be made to prevent the illegal channelling of assets belonging to the libyan state to the neighbouring countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it states that libya will be a moderate muslim country with a constitution reflecting this and will favour women's participation in public life. expresses its hope that the libyan national transitional council will fulfil its duty and uphold its commitments to build a tolerant, united and democratic libyan state in which the universal human rights of all libyan citizens, including migrant workers and foreigners, are protected. i believe that the libyan national transitional council will actively encourage women and young people and involve them in the political process aimed at the formation of political parties and the establishment of democratic institutions. the security and well-being of the libyan people, transparency and full respect for democratic principles and the provisions of international humanitarian law are paramount. i believe that the new libyan authorities must be helped to build a united, democratic and pluralistic libya, in which the human rights, fundamental freedoms and justice of all libyan citizens, as well as migrant and refugee workers, are guaranteed for all.
in writing. - after 42 years of dictatorship and six months of military conflict, libya is on the verge of change. libyan citizens have the opportunity to open the door to democracy, to citizens' equality before the law, to the rule of law, to the protection of human rights, to the creation of a decent life. libya should abolish the death penalty. libya is a welcome step towards becoming a moderate muslim state. the eu must support the country during the transition period. the situation in the country is particularly difficult: thousands of refugees lack food and water. the most important thing now is to restore peace and normalcy to the country. we need to restore border controls, ensure internal security, disarm volunteers, and allow libyans who have emigrated to return home safely. the crimes against humanity in libya should be assessed and those responsible should be punished. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the eu member states to help libya on its path to democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the escalation of violence against peaceful protesters and the brutal and systematic persecution of pro-democracy activists, human rights defenders and journalists. expresses its deep concern at the serious human rights violations committed by the syrian authorities, including mass arrests, extrajudicial killings, unsanctioned detentions, abductions and torture. i believe that it is necessary to support the objective of ensuring full respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and to guarantee better economic and social conditions. i agree with the view that there is a need for an independent, transparent and effective investigation into the killings, arrests, unauthorised detentions, alleged enforced disappearances and torture by the syrian security forces to ensure that those responsible are held to account.
in writing. b. the assad regime's actions in syria against fellow citizens seeking change have already cost 2,600 lives. the population continues to face significant risks. this cannot continue. eu leaders strongly condemned the brutality of the syrian regime. that's not enough. the un security council should take the initiative, and we must bring the regime's perpetrators to international justice. the eu is still unable to agree on a common position in the face of widespread crime. the economic pressure on syria is too low. every day, snipers shoot people on the street who use mobile phones, the internet is down in the country, people are buried in mass graves. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the polish presidency to strengthen the eu's voice in the syrian conflict, to persuade russia and china to vote in favour of un sanctions, and to push for the early resignation of mr assad.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because corruption undermines the rule of law, leads to misuse of public funds in general and eu funds collected from taxpayers, distorts the market and has also contributed to the current economic crisis. i believe that the recovery of member states' economies affected by the economic and financial crisis is hampered by corruption, tax evasion, tax fraud and other economic crimes. the risk of corruption is particularly high in the case of large-scale deregulation and privatisation and must be addressed by all possible means. i agree that the commission must ensure strict coordination of the reporting of anti-corruption, anti-fraud strategy and legislative initiative on confiscation of assets acquired through criminal means, and that it is necessary to include this in the broader set of measures to protect the legitimate economy, as well as to implement the other measures provided for in the document.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the commission needs to take stronger action to combat corruption effectively, which does enormous damage not only to individual member states but also to the eu as a whole. it should be noted that corruption has a significant negative impact on the rule of law and leads to misuse of both public and eu funds. i believe that the commission must be more operational and effective in implementing its commitments under the un convention against corruption. i agree with the proposal that the fight against anonymous shell companies should be a key aspect of the future reform of the anti-money laundering directive. it is important to note that the risk of corruption is particularly high in the case of large-scale deregulation and privatisation, and we must therefore make every effort to deal with this problem expeditiously by all possible means.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i share the view that both the european commission and the member states should make greater efforts to combat corruption in the eu. corruption, like a cancer on our society, impoverishes the majority while enriching the criminals. it takes many forms and levels - from a 'small thank you' to a civil servant for a service to the appropriation of millions of eu funds. in some eu countries, corruption has become a morally legitimate norm. the economic crisis, the global austerity, unfortunately, has only made this opium wound worse. this is particularly felt in the new eu countries, as well as in lithuania. i welcome the commission's communication of 6 june 2011 entitled 'fighting corruption in the eu'. while the main work and responsibility rests with the eu member states, the european commission must create a mechanism to help countries combat this scourge and disseminate good practice.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, corruption and political mudslinging have become a hallmark of lithuanian politics. according to the transparency international corruption perceptions index, lithuania ranks 46th in the world when it comes to fighting corruption. lithuania scored 5.0 on a scale of 10 (very clean) to 0 (very corrupt). it's worse than the republic of botswana and costa rica, and a little bit better than ghana. the head of the transparency international for europe chapter said that lithuania still had a long way to go to work in a corruption-free environment. the allegations of corruption are often used to discredit political opponents. according to the bertelsmann foundation, 84% of respondents in lithuania believe that the government's efforts to fight corruption are ineffective. the national anti-corruption programme of the republic of lithuania clearly defines the objectives and criteria for the evaluation of anti-corruption work. unfortunately, the problem persists due to a lack of firm commitment to fight corruption. moreover, corruption is not limited to politics or big business. public procurement, return of property rights, land use, food inspection, health services are just some of the areas where corruption is also reported in lithuania, according to several reports. the time has come to wage a ruthless fight against corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on famine in east africa, where thousands of people have died, 750,000 people are at risk of starvation and 13.3 million people in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti are in urgent need of food aid in the face of the worst famine in 60 years. i support the call for the international community to increase its focus and redouble its efforts to address this emergency situation in order to meet the growing humanitarian needs and prevent a deterioration of the situation. the eu must become even more involved in humanitarian aid operations, ensuring that all support reaches those who need it most. it is also essential that the eu uses all its diplomatic capabilities to engage with the regional authorities and groups to allow humanitarian aid organisations to provide unhindered assistance to those in need, and to protect civilians, especially women and children.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document because the malnutrition indicators in the area are more than three times the emergency threshold and because the situation in kyushu as a whole is expected to deteriorate further. eu aid needs to be more focused on areas where hunger is most acute and provide food, healthcare, clean water and sanitation to the most vulnerable people. the solution to the famine in the horn of africa, and in particular in somalia, will only be found if the underlying political, economic, environmental and security challenges are addressed by local actors and the international community. the international community must take on the challenge of long-term investment in agriculture as the region's main source of food and income, developing sustainable infrastructure, ensuring access to land for small farmers, thereby supporting the local market and providing people with acceptable daily food.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to reduce the number of deaths from noncommunicable diseases in europe. the world health organization (who) session announced that noncommunicable diseases - mainly cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, cancer and diabetes - are responsible for the deaths of up to 86% of the world's population each year. the most important risk factors for noncommunicable diseases are those known to man: tobacco use, an unbalanced diet that can lead to overweight, high blood pressure, exposure to environmental pollutants, excessive alcohol consumption and physical inactivity. if no action is taken, such as promoting healthier diets, reducing alcohol abuse and promoting physical activity in the community by 2030, the epidemic could kill up to 52 million people in europe. in order to avoid or at least reduce these indicators, member states, researchers and health professionals are encouraged to seek the efficiency of uniform health systems and to strengthen the accessibility of health services.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it calls for the eu and its member states to support the five key commitments and include them in the political statement to be drawn up at the un high level meeting on noncommunicable diseases in september 2011, namely to reduce mortality from noncommunicable diseases by 25% by 2025, as proposed by the who, to take interventions to achieve cost-effectiveness and cost-saving measures, including faster implementation of the who framework convention on tobacco control, to improve access to healthy food and promote healthy diets, including reducing the consumption of salt, sugar, saturated fats and fatty acid transisomers in society, to take effective measures to combat alcohol abuse and to promote more active physical activity throughout society, to consider the overall impact of environmental pollution, to monitor the reduction of morbidity and mortality from noncommunicable diseases by 2025, to develop a mechanism to monitor the overall trends in noncommunicable diseases, to promote a high level of accountability and to develop a high level of accountability of all stakeholders at the level of the organisation, to ensure that the main trends of noncommunicable diseases are taken into account at the 2014 meeting.
in writing. − a major global problem noncommunicable diseases: including cardiovascular, respiratory, cancer and diabetes. the adoption of this resolution underlines the urgency of the problem and the need to prevent diseases. currently, 97% of healthcare spending is spent on treatment, compared with only 3% on prevention. prevention and public information on tobacco, alcohol consumption, overeating, physical inactivity and environmental pollution must be given priority. treatment and prevention of non-communicable diseases also have an economic effect. without action, society will be doomed to extinction as humanity grows morbid and deadly. the estimated global economic loss from noncommunicable diseases to the global economy between 2005 and 2030 is estimated at around eur 25 trillion. it is important to encourage people from an early age to take an interest in and care for their health and the environment. one option is to provide statistical data showing a direct link between the disease and its cause. the state can and must provide information on risk factors and their effects. on the one hand, individual risk factors remain individual, but environmental pollution is a common concern for all of us. it is therefore important to think not only about yourself but also about other residents. finally, i would like to mention that the eu does not yet have a common strategy on noncommunicable diseases, but the adoption of this resolution is a step forward.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, as the digital agenda for europe emphasises, wireless broadband and communications services are crucial factors for growth and europe's global competitiveness. the revised directive will have a positive economic impact on the whole sector and will encourage the introduction of new wireless services, as the introduction of lower frequency bands will reduce network costs. the telecommunications sector will thus be able to save capital costs for the deployment of the single european network. moreover, a level playing field across europe and a well-functioning digital internal market will allow the full potential of the digital economy to be realised. ensuring sufficient and properly managed spectrum is essential to attract and retain new users, accelerate the emergence of new services and improve their needs. properly managed services will have a significant impact on growth and economic recovery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because europe must lead and create the best possible conditions for a competitive european knowledge economy characterised by vitality, change and innovation. a single internal market with a focus on services and the knowledge economy is essential for europe to lead the world economy. i therefore believe that the european union must maintain a united position on matters falling within its competence. the amendments to the radio regulations and the agenda for the 2015 conference will be adopted at the next conference on this subject. the commission shall ensure that this agenda is consistent with the position of the european parliament on the radio spectrum policy programme process and is in the interest of the international interests of the european union. a coordinated approach at european level is needed to ensure that we have sufficient spectrum to meet the eu's strategic objectives. wireless broadband and communication services are key drivers of european growth and global competitiveness. i think there will be a positive economic impact for the whole sector, as well as the introduction of new wireless services, lower network costs. i also emphasise the principle of subsidiarity as one of the fundamental principles of the european union, with a view to combining the powers of the member states and the competences of the european union.
the author. − president lukashenko has decided to grant pardons and release 11 political prisoners who were sentenced after the events of 19 december. this decision was taken, it seems, not by accident today, when we are discussing the resolution, when euronest met for its first assembly. i think that is a step in the right direction, but it is far from enough. the arrest and imprisonment of human rights activist ales bialiacki, head of the organisation vesna, should be strongly condemned. the eu and belarus have agreed to continue their dialogue on the issue of the situation in belarus. the european union countries need to improve the mechanism and coordination and strengthen the protection of personal data in legal aid processes when dealing with non-democratic countries. i would nevertheless urge belarus to respond to the european commission's proposal and to enter into negotiations on lowering visa fees.
author. − mr president, this is not the first time that we in this house are condemning the ongoing harassment and systematic persecution of belarusian human rights defenders, democratic opposition, free media and civil society activists in lukashenko’s belarus. contempt for human worth, dignity, liberty and human rights has become an inescapable aspect of lukashenko’s authoritarian regime. yet this time we are dealing with something extraordinary. the criminalisation of dissent and the use of the criminal penal code to intimidate the opposition seem to have reached a climax in the case of ales bialatski, a prominent human rights defender, head of the viasna human rights centre, who was arrested on 4 august 2011 and charged on 14 august for concealment of profits on a particularly large scale. it is obvious that the regime is trying to see how far it can go in violating human rights and abusing civil liberties. at the same time, the regime is testing the limits of our political sensitivity and moral commitment. if we stop reacting and using harsh words, if we adopt a complacent stance ascribing the views on civil liberties and human rights to the specificity of belarusian society, or if we succumb to a sort of fatalistic attitude to lukashenko’s regime, the story is over. we and humanity at large will be on the losing side and the regime will impose its logic on us. that is why we have to react to this outrageous injustice even more strongly than we did before. we have to admit the shameful fact that charges have been brought against ales bialatski using personal data on him sent by the lithuanian and polish authorities on the basis of the implementation of a bilateral legal aid agreement. i cannot speak on behalf of poland – that is not up to me – but i can speak as a lithuanian: i am truly sorry for what has happened in lithuania in the ministry of justice. even so, it does not absolve belarusian authorities from their responsibilities. we should not create an illusion that they can get away from this story with some ambivalent reactions or technical errors in the eu. ales bialatski must, and will, be released.
member of the commission. - madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an agreement which will not solve the problems in the region on its own, but which undoubtedly opens up important prospects which must be exploited. this new agreement, which the european union signed with the palestinian authority on 13 april, gives the palestinian authority free access to the european market for all agricultural, agri-food and fishery products originating in the west bank and the gaza strip, with the exception, as the rapporteur has said, of the fruit and vegetable sector, for which the european union has retained the system of protecting entry prices. this means that partial protection applies to certain periods which are important for producers in the european union; otherwise, the rest of the time, palestinian products can be exported to the european union. this unilateral concession by the european union is granted on a temporary basis for a period of 10 years, with the possibility of extending the agreement in the light of the future economic development of palestine. the agreement also contains a review clause, which will allow the terms of the agreement to be reviewed five years after implementation and possibly extended if necessary. the agreement also contains a temporary withdrawal clause, known as the 'anti-fraud clause', which ensures that only palestinian products benefit from the preferential agreement. i know that some of you, during the discussion in the committee on international trade, raised the concern that others are benefiting from the agreement. i think that the application of this clause will help to solve this situation. this agreement is one of the most generous agreements the european union has ever signed in the agricultural field. its adoption is justified by the political and economic situation and the specific conditions of palestinian agriculture. the palestinian authority is the european union's smallest trading partner in the euro-mediterranean region. eu exports to palestine amounted to eur 57,5 million in 2009 and eur 89,3 million in 2010 while eu imports from palestine amounted to only eur 6,5 million in 2009 and eur 9,3 million in 2010. the opening of the market to this region should support the economic development of the occupied palestinian territory and give a significant boost to the development of the palestinian agricultural sector and the activities of its farmers. the european union will complement the granting of additional trade preferences with a programme of technical assistance in the commercial field. this assistance has already begun in the field of sanitary and phytosanitary matters; it will continue according to the future needs and demands of the palestinians.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, the agreement between the eu and the palestinian authority comes at a very important and highly symbolic moment when we are dealing with the issue of palestinian statehood. regardless of whether the palestinian people obtain their legitimate statehood in the coming months or some time later, the state of their economy will be a crucial factor which will determine whether there can be sustainable peace between palestine and israel. for it is naive to expect that the population will be peaceful and law-abiding when most of its people do not have bread on their table and their children must live in poverty. currently, the level of trade between the eu and the palestinian territories is extremely low. we can therefore expect that the agreement we are discussing today and will be voting on tomorrow will have a substantial impact on the palestinian economy. however, we should also think about other ways to increase our bilateral trade, especially by improving the conditions of market access for palestinian exports to the eu. this would certainly be beneficial to all parties concerned. madam president, allow me on a final note to mention that while we are about to approve a trade agreement with the palestinian authority, for more than a year parliament has been keeping on hold an agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products (acaa) between the eu and israel. we will be granting trade preferences to the palestinian territories, parts of which are ruled by a terrorist organisation, hamas, but at the same time we are blocking a technical agreement with israel, which is not acceptable at all. this shameful discrimination in some political groups in this house has absolutely no justification.
author. − mr president, i would like to congratulate parliament and all my colleagues for starting a parliamentary discussion on deeper trade ties between the eu and taiwan, including the possibility of a bilateral free trade agreement in the near future. taiwan is an important trade partner, but our trade relationship has recently performed well below its potential. large gains for european companies can be expected in terms of exports of goods and services, as well as foreign direct investments. taiwan also plays a very important role in the global supply chains of information and communication technologies. the european ict sector is itself heavily dependent on the taiwanese supply of high-end components and contract manufacturing. at the same time, the taiwanese export structure does not threaten some of europe’s most sensitive exports, such as automobiles and agriculture. what is more, the eu can also gain from a triangular trade, including taiwan and china, since european firms, especially in the ict sector, have already expressed their interest in using taiwan as a high-value hub in greater china and the wider east asian supply chains. i would like to dwell on aspects related to taiwan’s political status. you may know that taiwan has the status of an independent customs territory. it has been a full member of the wto since 2002 as well as a full member of apec and the asian development bank. therefore closer economic ties do not contradict the eu’s ‘one china’ policy. at the same time, we must recognise that taiwan is already negotiating an fta with singapore. new zealand, india, indonesia and the philippines will be next. the eu should therefore be in line with these processes and consider launching fta negotiations with taiwan.
mr president, we may say that taiwan is a very peculiar and special country in south-east asia. it has developed a european-type parliamentary democracy, a market economy and moderate social customs. today taiwan is peacefully building its own prosperity, being important for europe as well, and may contribute to progress in the entire region, as well as being an encouraging example to promote democracy. being a crucial partner in such an international forum as a community of democracies, taiwan does deserve, and must be supported in strengthening, its ties with the eu as well. having its own ethnic and historical links with the pacific, the smaller republic of today had to emerge through the controversies of the second world war, sometimes resisting the mainland communist dictatorship, and became a creator of its own destiny. that should undoubtedly be welcomed, and we welcome the eu-taiwan trade agreement as well as future free-trade agreements with taiwan. i wish you the best of luck.
member of the commission. − the civil protection systems of our member states are organised somewhat differently, but they have one thing in common, namely that they bring together firefighters and first responders for action inside or outside – primarily for action inside, but with coordination with the union it could be action outside. the way in which we cooperate with nato is through the eu military staff. in other words, we make our capabilities known and available, and then the eu military staff are our link to nato. the defence policy of the union is the responsibility of the high representative. if there is a complex emergency – as we had with libya – in which nato takes a role, our contribution is as a building block bringing our assets to bear as needed.
member of the commission. − i think that trade plays a very fundamental role on the markets, because markets provide price signals and the need for investment. having said this, in development policy we have clearly seen the need to go towards more sustainable agricultural investment. in many parts of the world, there is not sufficient infrastructure to access the market. farmers in developing countries do not have sufficient means or knowledge to produce more food. in africa, we will need to nearly triple yields over the next 40 years. that is why development policy will, in particular, be focusing on supporting farmers. i would definitely discourage a sub-culture of working towards self-sufficiency methods. there have been such attempts in the world. they always failed. we should also take a very important factor into account. there are good and bad years in agriculture. if a region has a bad year, what should we do? humanitarian aid can give the chance of surviving for a certain period, but basically we very much need to have global trade systems in agricultural commodities. i believe that the right answer is that one of the pillars of eu development policy should be to support sustainable agriculture, with a special focus on smallholder farmers, who are in the majority women.
member of the commission. − we are in contact all the time, but it is definitely a very important point to consider when we design the next step for our next financial framework – how to achieve this goal in the best possible way.
my question is to commissioner de gucht. i would like to raise an issue that has caused significant controversy in this house, namely that of acaa, an agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products between the eu and israel. this agreement has already been kept on hold in this house for more than a year, even though it is purely technical in nature and concerns mutually accepted standards that will facilitate trade in pharmaceutical products. we have seen the swift acceptance of trade agreements with some third countries that are not always the most democratic or respectful of human rights. at the same time parliament – or at least some political groups in this house – have been effectively boycotting our relations with israel. i would like to ask what political consequences such behaviour in one of the institutions – namely the european parliament – will have on eu-israel relations and the eu’s influence in the wider region? secondly, is the commission monitoring and assessing the damage to european pharmaceutical companies, and the additional costs european consumers of pharmaceutical products are experiencing, owing to the deliberations on this agreement in the european parliament? my supplementary question will be that i would appreciate the comments of commissioner füle on this issue.
i voted in favour of this report because it sets out very precisely the problems encountered in projects financed by the cohesion fund and the ways in which they can be solved. in particular, the complex rules for the application of financial instruments and the need to simplify them to take account of the specificities of each country. secondly, the need for better interaction, complementarity and flexibility between all the funds, i.e. regional development, cohesion, social and agricultural funds. this is necessary to facilitate the financing of integrated projects. for example, the potential of cross-financing has not yet been fully exploited. thirdly, the commission and the member states must give priority to an integrated approach to local and regional development projects, encouraging local initiatives from the bottom up, and ensuring that the possibility of financing as many small and individual projects as possible is created. i hope that the european parliament's views will be heard this time and that its proposals will be taken into account, thus contributing to a faster absorption of the cohesion fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important recommendation on trade in agricultural and fishery products between the eu and palestine. this agreement comes at a very important and highly symbolic moment, when we are dealing with the issue of palestinian statehood. currently, the level of trade between the eu and the palestinian territories is extremely low. the eu imports are worth around eur 7 million of palestinian goods, of which 72% consists of agricultural products. we, members of the european parliament, can therefore expect that the agreement will have a substantial impact on the palestinian economy. however, we should also think about other ways to increase our bilateral trade, especially by improving the conditions for market access of palestinian exports to the eu, which would certainly be beneficial to all parties concerned. regardless of whether the palestinian people obtain their legitimate statehood in the coming months or some years later, the state of their economy will be a crucial factor which will determine whether there can be sustainable peace between palestine and israel.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it provides for the exemption from customs duties (and, in most cases, quotas) of palestinian agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products imported into the european market. a few products of similar nature originating in the eu will not be subject to customs duties (but will be subject to quotas) on entry into palestine, with certain exceptions. however, the main objective of the agreement is to help develop the palestinian economy and thus facilitate the export of palestinian products to the eu.
in writing. - i voted for this document. international air links between member states and third countries have traditionally been established by bilateral air services agreements. in 2002, the court of justice of the eu ruled that traditional bilateral air services agreements between member states infringe eu law as they allow a third party to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisation or licence of an air carrier designated by a member state but whose majority shareholding is not owned by that member state or its national entity and which is not effectively controlled by them. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees that nationals of member states enjoying freedom of establishment may enjoy the same rights as nationals of that member state. mexico is an important market for eu carriers, with a turnover of around 2,5 million passengers and 90 000 tonnes of freight in 2009. given the size and importance of the eu-mexico aviation market, this new agreement aims to ensure that all eu air carriers can benefit from air routes between eu member states and mexico without discrimination.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because certain provisions on air services need to be amended in order to improve and strengthen the aviation relations between the european union and the united mexican states. mexico is a very important market for european union carriers and more agreements related to air transport are needed to bring more benefits to consumers in mexico and the european union countries. the new agreements and amendments are intended to provide better market access and to help strengthen trade links with mexico. the european commission has currently identified thirteen agreements between the united mexican states and the european union relating to communications services that are still in force. several key clauses of the agreement strictly prohibit anti-competitive activities and all consumers wishing to travel from the european union and mexico should not be discriminated against. but as i said, mexico is an important market for european union carriers, and more air transport agreements are needed to further improve cooperation between these countries.
in writing. − i have supported this document because i believe that there are important aspects of this agreement, such as the need to avoid discrimination against eu air carriers, the traditional articles on designations referring to air carriers from eu member states that have signed a bilateral agreement are replaced by an eu article on designation referring to all eu air carriers. the aim is to ensure that all eu air carriers can benefit from air routes between eu member states and mexico without discrimination. the safety provisions of bilateral agreements would apply in cases where the regulatory control of an air carrier is exercised by a member state other than the one that has designated that air carrier. anti-competitive activities are also prohibited.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. the european commission, acting under the authority of the council, has negotiated with the republic of cape verde the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde of 19 december 2006. the protocol aims to establish cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, taking into account the interests of both parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a new protocol is needed to improve and strengthen the non-declared and unregulated fisheries in cape verde. cape verde is a small island nation of 465 000 inhabitants in the atlantic ocean, some 500 km west of the tip of west africa in senegal. cape verde is considered one of the best performing african countries in terms of political, economic and social development. the new protocol will have a significant impact on the political and financial stability of cape verde, as the annual financial compensation is eur 435 000, of which eur 110 000 will be allocated to support the cape verdean fisheries sector (eur 50 000 more than under the old protocol). in order to maintain the viability of european businesses, the new protocol must preserve the european union's ability to fish in the west african fishing areas and improve partnerships between them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document as it will allow fishing for 28 tonnes of fishing lines, 35 drift-nets and 11 re-screening vessels, with an indicative annual quota of 5 000 tonnes. these fishing opportunities may be reviewed and increased or reduced, taking into account the annual assessments of the state of the stocks, and the level of the financial contribution will be reviewed accordingly. the annual financial compensation shall be eur 435 000 (total for the whole period of eur 1 305 000), consisting of: (a) an annual fee for fishing rights in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of cape verde of eur 325 000; (b) an annual special amount of eur 110 000 to support the development of the fisheries policy of the republic of cape verde. these fishing opportunities will be allocated to the member states concerned following the submission of a proposal for a specific council regulation.
in writing. - i voted for this document. on 30 march 2009, the council requested the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure the highest level of interoperability between the european air traffic management modernisation programme sesar and the corresponding us programme nextgen, as well as other projects in icao (international civil aviation organisation) regions. on 9 october 2009, on the basis of a recommendation from the commission, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the eu, with the faa on a memorandum of cooperation on research and development in civil aviation. the council also asked the commission to jointly prepare an annex to address the issues of sesar and nextgen interaction. the proposed draft memorandum of understanding defines the terms and conditions for bilateral cooperation between the eu and the us to promote and develop civil aviation research and development. this important tool will enable the contracting parties to work together towards the common goal of making air transport systems greener and more efficient. the draft memorandum will allow both contracting parties to undertake joint research and development activities in any field of civil aviation.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it defines the terms and conditions for bilateral cooperation between the eu and the us to promote and develop civil aviation research and development. this important instrument, developed on the basis of a legally binding framework and subject to the harmonised principles of reciprocity, will enable the contracting parties to work together towards the common objective of making air transport systems greener and more efficient. the draft memorandum will allow both contracting parties to undertake joint research and development activities in any field of civil aviation. the memorandum of cooperation with the usa provides a solid and legally binding basis for joint research and development activities and for the appropriate handling of sensitive issues such as liability, intellectual property rights and reciprocity. the memorandum may also establish international aviation standards that ensure global interoperability, meet the expectations of aviation stakeholders and ensure wider market opportunities for european companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation as the purpose of this document is to extend the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the crossborder transport of euro cash by road from one euro area member state (basic proposal) to the territory of member states preparing to adopt the euro, as there is a high demand for euro cash transport services in preparation for the changeover.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in february 2011, the european commission adopted a green paper which aims to define a strategic framework for research and innovation funding beyond 2013. the eu has set itself the target of increasing funding for research and technological development (r&td) to 3% of eu gdp by 2020. many member states still have a long way to go to achieve this objective, and it is therefore particularly important to increase public and private investment in research and technological development. the eu is experiencing an economic, social and environmental crisis, and research, education and innovation are crucial tools for economic recovery and job creation. i agree that europe needs to make better use of its great potential in research, technology and innovation and contribute to solving global challenges such as demographic change, sustainable use of resources and the creation of a stable and resilient economic base.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the european commission plans to adopt a green paper which will aim to strengthen the european research area and increase investment in research, to promote industrial investment and technological development and to promote the overall competitiveness and innovation of the european union. the commission plans to launch the strategic programmes after 2013. these strategies will address many of the existing problems in europe that are associated with inappropriate programmes. the aim is to create new tools for the different actors to ensure a favourable programme. in order to take action on research and innovation systems, the european commission needs to ensure better conditions and access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. it is also important to encourage and involve more people in this process so that they are more active and to make them aware of the new programme rules.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because it aims to encourage the restructuring of existing instruments and programmes by aligning them with new instruments in order to create a programme that is favourable to the various actors. it is understood that research and innovation are particularly important tools for strengthening the strategy for growth that aims to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth. this is all the more important in the light of the current economic and social crisis.
in writing. − research and technological development is a crucial issue for growth and progress in europe as a whole, and efforts to make participation in rtd programmes easier and to make more efficient use of funds are therefore essential. the 'general strategic framework' proposed by the ec and set out in the green paper is a very important tool for achieving the objectives of the emea. the green paper welcomes the emphasis on the complexity of r & d and innovation funding and its compatibility with the financial instruments of the cohesion policy, but it also calls for a stronger focus on key eu challenges such as climate change, energy efficiency and the development of green technologies. it is also important that the programme emphasises and strengthens regional cooperation, and that more attention should be paid to young researchers in terms of human resources: involving them more actively both in the calls for proposals and in the project evaluation process, and looking for ways to develop specific tools for young researchers or groups of young researchers. this would not only increase the competence of young researchers and the attractiveness of eu research programmes, but also contribute to the renewal of the human potential of eu-wide r & d. after reading the commission's vision in the green paper, i must point out that some issues are not sufficiently emphasised. one of these is the 'two-speed europe', as the eu-12 is clearly lagging far behind its predecessors. the new programme should seek to bridge the gap and isolate new members from the eu's key scientific processes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out a long-term strategy for research and innovation in the european union for the period 2014-2020. the eu plans to invest €80 billion in scientific research over this period. the initiative of the socialist and democratic group is to provide funds to correct certain injustices. currently, 60% of young people graduating from university in the eu are women, but the majority of university professors are men. some universities have more resources to attract high-quality faculty, researchers, and others can't even equip their faculty with computers. i support the rapporteur's proposal to establish 'mind regions' in the eu and to develop a better system for allocating eu funds to universities. an important proposal is to cancel the debts of those researchers who are able to achieve very significant results. i believe that this comprehensive document will help the eu, and lithuania, to achieve the 2020 goals: to increase the importance of science in europe and to reduce the concentration of scientists in only some regions.
in writing. − dear colleagues, research and innovation are important to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth in lithuania. unfortunately, according to the european innovation scoreboard, lithuania is well below the eu-27 average lithuania's cpi is 0.23 and the eu-27 average is 0.52. this is partly due to insufficient r & d funding and lack of favourable conditions for innovation in lithuania. as the rapporteur points out, there is an urgent need for better coordination and co-financing of research projects in the union. in my country, business funding for r & d is less than a quarter of the eu norm, and public funding for r & d is 15% lower than in the eu. other european innovation scoreboard data are also worrying: for example, lithuania has 39% fewer people in knowledge-intensive jobs than other eu countries. lithuania needs a more attractive and dynamic research climate. lithuanian researchers who have obtained their academic degrees at foreign universities rarely return to lithuanian institutions due to low-competitive funding, poor career prospects, complex administrative procedures and closed hierarchical structures. it shouldn't be like this. a recent world bank report notes that lithuania has a high potential to become a viable knowledge economy if it improves its governance, regulation and management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european school system. as we know, the european school was established in 1953. their purpose is to ensure that school-age children who live abroad with their parents working for the eu institutions have access to education in their mother tongue. children must be guaranteed the possibility of returning to their educational institution in their country of origin at any time. i agree with the rapporteur that these schools are a necessity, not a luxury. the budgetary constraints are becoming more pressing in the face of the financial crisis, but in the case of european schools, it is necessary to analyse the situation with a view to the future of young europeans rather than the costs. the savings should not undermine the basic principles on which the european school system is based, namely that teachers in these schools should teach in their mother tongue. i agree with the rapporteur that the fact that schools are having difficulty finding teachers who teach in their mother tongue means that there is a need to change recruitment policies, rather than limiting or abandoning european schools altogether.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the aim of the european schools is to provide education in the mother tongue for pupils whose parents may be forced to change jobs or return to their country of origin, and to develop the european dimension in education. the economic crisis has had an impact on the financing of european schools and the commission has called for reforms to make the management of school expenditure more efficient, but this should not affect the education of vulnerable children with learning difficulties and special needs, affect their mother tongue or reduce the use of languages other than french, german and english. i believe that the intention to reduce the budget of the european schools poses a serious threat to the quality of teaching and the proper functioning of the european schools and therefore i do not support the reduction of the budget of the european schools.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to bring together pupils from different cultures and languages, whose abilities and aptitudes may vary widely, in a single educational system, whereby all pupils receive the same diploma european certificate of maturity. the task of the european schools is to provide education in the mother tongue for pupils whose parents may be forced to change jobs or return to their country of origin, and to develop the european dimension in education. european schools should also promote multiculturalism and multilingualism and should set an example in promoting less widely used languages internationally. it is necessary to point out that the curriculum of european schools should be better coordinated with the curricula of national education systems in order to facilitate the reintegration of pupils returning to their countries of origin. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to ensure that all their universities and higher education institutions, when recognising the education of pupils from european schools, apply the same requirements as those for pupils from national schools and that these pupils are subject to the same evaluation system in order to ensure equal opportunities for them to pursue higher education.
in writing. − european schools are often mistakenly equated with elite schools and seen as a luxury rather than a necessity, even though their task is to provide education in the mother tongue for pupils whose parents may be forced to change jobs or return to their country of origin. i have endorsed this document because the european school is an excellent model of learning, based on a tried and tested approach to teaching which must become one of the best possible examples of teaching in europe, based on the dissemination of european culture, values and languages, and because the inclusion of certain elements of this model, such as the emphasis on foreign language skills, in national and regional education systems would create favourable conditions for professional mobility and help to promote multilingualism and european integration. the curriculum of european schools needs to be better aligned with the curricula of national education systems in order to facilitate the reintegration of pupils returning to their countries of origin. i believe that in the various member states, pupils should be given the opportunity to complete european studies and obtain a european certificate of maturity. it is necessary for the member states to cooperate in drawing up their national curricula, drawing up curricula common to all schools in the union, thereby bringing national systems closer to the european school system. adequate and sufficient funding must be allocated to european schools in order to ensure quality and equal and appropriate conditions for the education of children from all the language communities in european schools.
in writing. −to begin with, i would like to congratulate ourselves on the fact that over the years we have developed a truly exceptional educational model, which allows children living in multicultural environments abroad not only to receive a quality education, but also to learn their mother tongue well. i am therefore convinced that, in assessing the importance of these schools, the european union must pay due attention to the financing of these schools from the union budget. at the same time, in addition to a clearer regulation of the sources of funding for these schools, it is necessary to pay due attention to a more efficient management of these schools. i am therefore convinced that the resolution we have drawn up can be a major boost to the further development of this european education system.
in writing. − european schools were created so that the children of the european institutions' staff who are required to live and work in a different cultural environment can receive education in their mother tongue. the existence of these schools is not a luxury but a right belonging to the children of these officials due to the standards upheld by the european union. the schools build into the students the concept of what it means to be a european citizen and promotes both the eu and its institutions. these schools have existed for over 50 years, and thus this educational system requires some updating. i voted for this report because it calls for the system to be opened up to other students in the european union. it is also deemed necessary that these european schools would become examples to schools throughout europe, representing the distribution of culture, values, and languages. the reform of the schools also calls for an eu-wide recognition of the baccalaureate awarded by these schools so that students may achieve high education in any member state they choose.
in writing. − colleagues, how best to reform school systems to adapt them to new economic and social needs is a question of particular importance for lithuania. i am glad that the rapporteur has raised this problem, but it does not address certain important issues, such as reducing the number of people who are out of school. in lithuania, the rate of out-of-school children is 8.1%, compared with 7.4% in 2008. the high disparities between urban and rural populations (3.7% and 15.7% respectively) and between boys and girls (9.9% and 6.2%) are of even greater concern. the main reasons for such regional disparities are inadequate school networks, underdeveloped education support infrastructure and insufficiently qualified and competent teachers. in order to solve these problems, lithuania must take a number of concrete steps. first, we need to adapt the support infrastructure for training and education to the socially vulnerable groups. second, we need to reduce interregional differences in the quality of pre-primary and primary education. thirdly, we need to encourage young people to continue their education in vocational training institutions and to acquire vocational qualifications in line with the needs of the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the use of the eu structural funds and the cohesion fund. what lessons have we learned from implementing eu cohesion policy and using eu structural funds to this end? it should be noted first of all that many member states have encountered difficulties in using the structural funds and the cohesion fund from the eu budget, especially in the first years of membership. in addition, the global economic downturn, the different regulatory, legislative and organisational requirements in the different member states have created a number of problems. it is also true that the rules for the eu structural funds and the cohesion fund are complex and make it difficult to avoid mistakes. i agree with the rapporteur that rules and procedures should be simplified in order to improve the use of eu funds and increase efficiency. the timely adoption of the multiannual financial framework and clear guidelines and rules for the use of eu funds is particularly important. in turn, member states must make every effort to help their citizens to implement eu-funded projects properly, rather than creating additional bureaucratic obstacles and constraints. only by doing so can we expect better results, more effective eu funds and greater understanding and support for eu cohesion policy among citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. many member states have encountered difficulties in using the structural funds and the cohesion fund from the eu budget, especially in the first years of membership. this report therefore highlights the problems, their causes, the best practices of the 2007-2013 programming period and the lessons to be learned from them in the future implementation of eu cohesion policy. i support the proposals contained in the european parliament's resolution, in particular to increase the proportionality of the aid intensity and the control requirements, to adopt clear rules and guidelines for the member states and to establish a programme of cooperation between member states to exchange best practices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union's cohesion policy is the most important instrument for promoting the eu's sustainable development, but despite progress in reducing disparities in the level of development between regions, their levels of economic, social and territorial development still vary widely. the current rules relating to the structural funds and the cohesion fund are inherently complex, often difficult to transpose and enforce, and can lead to errors and considerable time wasted by member states in correcting and monitoring such errors. it is therefore essential to simplify and make more flexible the rules and procedures for implementing financial instruments at eu and national level, in order to facilitate access to eu funds by project promoters and to encourage sound management by administrative departments, while avoiding major difficulties for beneficiaries. such simplification will also help to ensure rapid distribution of funds, higher rates of use of funds, greater efficiency and transparency, fewer execution errors and shorter payment periods. the european parliament regrets that the implementation of the european social fund (esf) has been slower than planned due to long administrative procedures and complex rules, especially in some member states, and that this has discouraged many potential beneficiaries from applying for funding, and therefore calls for a reconciliation of the esf objectives with the real needs of the labour market in order to invest in retraining and the protection of workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because of the need to simplify and make more flexible the rules and procedures for implementing financial instruments at eu and national level, in order to make it easier for project promoters to use eu funds and to encourage the administration to manage the funds in a reliable manner, without causing serious difficulties for the beneficiaries. more attention should be paid to punishing fraud rather than formal infringements; i believe that they should be assessed more flexibly and in the light of the seriousness of the infringement found. the principle of proportionality, whereby control procedures are determined in relation to the size of the project, should be more actively applied, i.e. simpler reporting and monitoring obligations should be introduced for small projects and programmes, but simplified rules should in no way prejudice transparency and accountability. efforts need to be concentrated on a small number of priorities in particular, to reduce the record level of unemployment in the internal market, especially with regard to youth and women's employment, to implement eu-wide projects more effectively and to maximise the impact and potential of the esf, thus supporting the europe 2020 strategy. account should also be taken of the different situations of the member states and of the need to strengthen the financial autonomy of the esf and to develop its flexibility. i also agree with the view that simplification of rules and procedures is necessary to ensure that smes can access structural funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the role of european disaster response and civil protection and humanitarian aid. last year saw a number of very serious disasters in europe and around the world, including major floods, severe storms and forest fires, which killed many people and caused enormous damage. i'm talking about the eruption of eyjafjallajökull in iceland, the earthquake in haiti, the floods in pakistan. given the dramatic increase in natural and man-made disasters in the european union and beyond in recent times, the eu must strive to increase the effectiveness of the measures available at all stages of the disaster management cycle. i mean prevention, preparedness, response and recovery and optimizing the use of all resources. it is also essential to simplify the european civil protection mechanism, which is too bureaucratic. however, the most important thing is that all member states contribute to the european response in accordance with the principle of european solidarity. the use of resources available in the member states should be optimised, avoiding duplication of structures, actions and costs and unnecessary and even burdensome bureaucracy.
in writing. - i voted for this report because in the last few decades the number of disasters worldwide has increased by as much as five times to 400 per year. the european union's response to disasters therefore needs to be improved in order to avoid high casualties. the main disasters faced by the member states of the european union are major forest fires, droughts, tsunamis and earthquakes, floods, nuclear accidents, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and pandemics. these disasters have killed an estimated 90 000 people in europe over the past 20 years and affected tens of millions. in addition, the economic damage amounted to some eur 211 billion. in the future, this disaster is likely to increase due to climate change and the depletion of natural gas resources, and it is therefore necessary to take concrete action as soon as possible. better coordination of actors, a security system, a 24-hour emergency response centre and accurate information during a crisis are among the key measures to reduce the number of casualties in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because i believe that the current european response to disasters needs to be streamlined and simplified, and that resources need to be optimised for the common good and encouraged by the member states to contribute, thus ensuring european solidarity. it is necessary to revise the regulation on the solidarity fund in order to adapt the eligibility criteria to the specificities of each region and natural disaster, including slow-onset natural disasters such as drought, and to allow for more flexibility in the timing of the allocation of funds. there is a need to move qualitatively from the current ad hoc coordination to a predictable and pre-planned eu civil protection mechanism based on pre-determined resources that can be immediately deployed in eu disaster relief operations and other contributions and resources that member states may deem necessary to deploy. a system for monitoring, supervising and developing eu operations in disaster relief operations is needed. disasters have no borders, so the eu should coordinate its resources and cooperate, and the eu's response must become coherent.
in writing. − natural and man-made disasters and their consequences often transcend national borders. therefore, in addition to a rapid response to these disasters, the rescue of human lives, property and the environment requires excellent coordination between the forces of neighbouring countries. i congratulate the rapporteur on drawing attention to this problem in his report and i join the calls for the european commission and the individual member states to take more active action to ensure that there is as much coordination between the national authorities as possible, to resolve the problems associated with the provision of logistical, technical and other assistance, and to launch a more active information campaign for eu citizens. this would not only ensure a more efficient use of the funds allocated to the civil protection sector, but also a more effective protection of our environment, citizens and their property.
in writing. − the euro banknotes and coins, introduced in 2002, are a pan-european means of payment that allows european citizens to pay in euro throughout the euro area, which currently comprises 17 member states. the very principle of the single currency means that euro banknotes and coins should move as freely as possible and be transported from one member state to another. however, the lack of harmonisation of national legislation makes it very difficult for professional cash carriers to move euro cash from one euro area member state to another in many cases, and the scale of cross-border transport by land is therefore very small. many things are regulated differently: the possession and carrying of firearms by cash workers, the types of transport allowed, the armor and equipment of cash vehicles, the staff in the cash vehicle. the current regulatory obstacles indicate the fragmentation of the common market in this sector. these restrictions on the professional carrying of euro cash have an impact on cash circulation and the price of cash for businesses and citizens. i supported the need to take action to remove existing regulatory barriers to the crossborder transport of euro cash by road and thus facilitate the free movement of the euro.
in writing. − although euro banknotes and coins were introduced in 2002, the market for the transport of euro cash remains highly fragmented. the large differences in national rules in this area make it very difficult for professional cash carriers to provide cross-border services. i therefore voted in favour of this regulation as it aims to simplify these regulatory constraints in order to facilitate the movement of euro banknotes and coins between member states that have adopted the euro.
in writing. - i voted for this document. dual-use goods licences are valid in the european union (dual-use goods are defined as goods, including software and technology, which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, as well as all goods which can be connected in any way to the production of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices). the regulation establishes a list of dual-use items and it is constantly updated to reflect the international commitments of the member states and rapid technological developments. this update of the list, which we voted on, will ensure full implementation of the commitments throughout the eu and will provide legal clarity for eu exporters on which goods require export licences.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in order to ensure the safety of people, to strengthen controls on the export of goods within the european union, and to strengthen and tighten the international licensing of arms exports, several points in the old regulation need to be amended and supplemented. the amendment of this regulation establishes a community framework for dual-use items and technologies. the supplementary regulation takes account of the export control regime in order to establish a reliable system of reporting, collection, transmission and storage. the eu's reputation and representation in international export control regimes is also being strengthened. the authorisation of dual use is decided under four international export control regimes. first, the australian group to prevent the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons, and second, the nuclear suppliers group to stop the proliferation of unmanned nuclear weapon delivery systems. the missile technology control group is committed to reducing nuclear proliferation and export controls and the wassenar agreement focuses on transparency of export control regimes. their main task is to update the lists of goods whose exports need to be controlled in order to ensure cooperation and security.
in writing. − the control of dual-use goods, i.e. goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes, has been the subject of action at eu level for some 15 years. i voted in favour of this document because export controls on dual-use goods are crucial to the non-proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the tourism sector in the eu accounts for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment and is the third most important sector of economic activity in the eu. this sector, which is composed mainly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is a major source of income for certain eu regions, such as the islands, and plays a crucial role in the eu's economic development and economic, social and territorial cohesion, as well as in the implementation of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. in recent years, europe has faced a number of challenges in tourism, such as the global economic crisis, climate change, demographic change in europe, etc. i supported the view that tourism policy should be considered as part of the eu's industrial and innovation policy and that the importance of micro-enterprises and smes for this sector, which is a major source of employment in the eu, should be properly recognised and supported. the commission should also review existing legislation in the field of tourism to meet the needs of the sector today and to ensure high and quality tourism services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the many challenges that tourism in europe has recently faced, such as the global economic and financial crisis, the competitiveness of other destinations outside the european union and the diversity of tourist attractions on offer, climate change and seasonal fluctuations in tourism activities, demographic changes in europe, the growing impact of information and communication technologies and many unforeseen circumstances. i would like to stress the importance of promoting european business tourism in the european union and worldwide, because it is important from an economic point of view in some parts of europe, and because business tourism generates services related to the organisation of fairs, exhibitions, conferences and other business events. parliament welcomed the commission's policy strategy for the tourism sector, which sets out concrete actions to boost the sector's activity, but regretted the lack of unanimity on the commission's tourism policy. it is therefore necessary to encourage the commission to consider the introduction of two new principles in tourism: interregional cooperation and complementarity, in order to promote joint planning of tourism services and cooperation within a single geographical area. parliament also called on the commission to draw lessons from recent emergencies such as volcanic eruptions and to develop specific eu crisis management scenarios so that coordination and coordination of information and action in all member states would become the rule.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because i welcome the measures under consideration to concentrate the social and economic knowledge base in the tourism sector, bearing in mind that the additional financial and administrative burden should be avoided as much as possible. the concept of package tourism is now outdated and the commission needs to amend it as soon as possible so that the same legislation applies to all operators providing tourism services. i also think that there is a good opportunity to gradually harmonise the reduced rate of vat in the tourism sector in all member states, as this is a necessary condition for transparent competition between tourism companies in the eu and in non-eu countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism. the quality of the service provided to the consumer and fair competition must play a particularly important role. there is also a need to promote european business tourism in the eu and worldwide, as it is economically important in some parts of europe, and because business tourism generates services related to the organisation of fairs, exhibitions, conferences and other business events (hotels, catering services, trade, transport, communication services and event agencies, etc.).
in writing. − the european union is the world's top tourist spot, and the tourism sector accounts for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment within the eu. this sector is especially important because it encourages the development of rural areas, and it promotes the image, culture, and unity of europe as a whole. tourism can be seen as building bridges between eu countries and the countries that will be joining eu in the future. i voted for this report because it offers specific measures to encourage tourism in the eu, such as a "europe brand" a "european heritage label". "europe brand" will promote europe as a worldwide tourist destination in publicity campaigns and promote a positive image of europe as a whole. meanwhile, the "european heritage label" gives prominence to sites crucial to the history of european integration and call on these areas to always remain accessible to tourists. the report also emphasizes the need for sustainable development in tourism from this point forward, keeping in mind the interests of future generations.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, several of the main arguments put forward by the rapporteur are directly related to the lithuanian tourism sector, in particular the need for more skilled jobs and better service. data from the lithuanian agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises showed that the lithuanian tourism sector employs 43 700 people, serving approximately 2.2 million foreign tourists per year. the lithuanian tourism sector is expected to receive almost 4.4% of the eu's structural funds for the period 2007-13. i also agree with the rapporteur that to make better use of these funds, the importance of training and professional development needs to be given greater emphasis. this should include investments in human capital, and in particular in new managers, administrators and entrepreneurs. lithuania also needs to modernise its services and strengthen its tourism infrastructure if it is to become more competitive in attracting tourists from europe. the expansion of the low-cost airline network to and from lithuania would be a good start. despite lithuania's natural beauty four unesco world heritage sites, its almost unique 100 km of coastline the quality of accommodation and service often falls short of international standards, according to a report by the united nations world tourism organization. this needs to be improved and more efforts should be made to promote tourism in lithuania.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. in 2009, more than 35 000 people were killed and more than 1 500 000 injured in road accidents in the european union. the target set in the third action programme to halve the number of people dying on eu roads by the end of 2010 has not been achieved, although the number of fatalities has fallen significantly. i support the commission's communication setting out the strategic objectives to halve by 2020 the total number of people killed on european roads compared to 2010. i support the call for a full action programme by 2011 with detailed measures with clear timetables for their implementation and monitoring measures to allow for a regular assessment of the progress of road safety measures in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to reduce the number of road accidents in the european union, which is currently on the rise, in the coming years. in 2009, more than 35 000 000 people were killed and about 1.5 million seriously injured on european union roads, many of them disabled. the number of people killed on the roads of the european union is enormous, with social and economic costs of €130 billion. the european commission has therefore presented a communication with the aim of doubling the number of people killed on european roads by 2020 compared to 2010. the commission has prepared seven key strategic actions to reduce road accidents by 2020. the strategic plans set out how to ensure safer road infrastructure, ensure compliance with road traffic rules and develop smart vehicles. in order to implement these strategies and reduce the number of casualties, it is necessary to ensure the highest level of coordination at both european union and national level.
in writing. − the commission's main objective is to halve the total number of people killed on european roads by 2020 (compared to 2010). to achieve these objectives, the commission has set out seven strategic objectives: improving the education of road users and the quality of the licensing and training system; strengthening the enforcement of road traffic rules; ensuring a safer road infrastructure; improving safety measures for lorries and light vehicles; developing advanced vehicles; improving emergency medical and first aid services; and ensuring the protection of vulnerable road users, especially motorcyclists. these are good, practical and necessary measures to reduce the number of people dying on eu roads. however, i abstained from voting in favour of this document because, in addition to the repeated calls from the european parliament, the rapporteur proposed additional measures to improve road safety in the eu, the implementation of which, in my view, would not produce the expected results. the measures taken must be adequate, logical and justified in the light of the facts. the road safety policy must be effective, consistent, and implemented and enforced with confidence.
in writing. − although road deaths in lithuania fell by half last year, road wars continue in lithuania and across the eu. in 2009, 35,000 people were killed in europe, 1,500,000 were injured and property damage was estimated at over €130 billion. i voted for this report because it aims to halve the number of deaths by 2020. the document calls on eu governments to focus more on road infrastructure and to ensure better cooperation between eu countries. it is unfair that a duplicate driving licence which has been withdrawn in one eu country can still be obtained in another eu country if you live or work there. it is therefore necessary to establish as soon as possible an eu system for the exchange of information on documents. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is rightly proposed to tighten the penalties by introducing a zero-alcohol rule for drivers with less than two years' driving experience. many accidents could be avoided by simple precautions, such as better road signs, better lighting, and alert police officers.
in writing. - i voted for this document. over the past century, it has become clear that despite the billions of dollars spent on flood control, no other natural disaster has caused more damage to property or killed more people. the second half of the 20th century has seen an increase in major floods, and in the coming decades, regular flooding will be a particularly serious problem. to ensure a reliable water supply during droughts and to contain excess water during floods, storage methods need to be improved. the challenge of re-evaluating freshwater management in the context of climate change is without doubt a major global challenge. i agree with the urgent need to adopt a comprehensive flood prevention strategy in those regions where there is a high risk of flooding and to make balanced investments in water demand management measures, land management, better water collection and storage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the need to improve water storage methods and reduce the construction of the world's largest dams. during the period of construction of the great dams, an estimated 40 to 80 million people had to be evacuated. dams change the use of rivers and natural resources, have a major impact on biodiversity and river ecosystems, and most importantly, threaten human communities. in every continent, dams pose a threat to people or to biological ecosystems. one of the real envy, brazil is currently in the process of getting permission to build the third largest dam in the world, but its construction will cause and do immeasurable damage to the amazon ecosystem and to all of its biodiversity. in addition, some 50,000,000 people will be forced to leave their homes. reducing dam construction is necessary because current estimates put the world at high risk of flooding by 2050, with an estimated 2 billion people at risk. in addition, dam reservoirs pose a serious threat to the environment by emitting greenhouse gases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because if areas with high agricultural production are not protected from the effects of flooding, emerging economies could face sudden development shifts and a rapidly increasing food supply problem. the melting of the himalayan glaciers is expected to increase the flow of all rivers for two to three decades in particular, and to weaken the flow considerably in the long term, making it particularly important to develop mitigation and adaptation strategies to combat future droughts. action is needed to reduce carbon monoxide and methane emissions, in particular by promoting research and investing in technologies to reduce emissions, i.e. urgent action to stop the melting of glaciers and snow. the short-term persistence of carbon monoxide and methane in the atmosphere requires a concerted effort to reduce emissions and urgent action to reduce the risk of tropical lake flooding effectively and rapidly.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament’s initiative in addressing this important issue. improving dam infrastructure in developing countries is necessary to address climate change consequences and to achieve development goals. it not only helps in managing flood risks and in providing better access to fresh-water resources, but also may provide for hydropower generation capacity. i believe a good impact can be achieved through micro-projects for hydropower dams, requiring small investment and rather basic technologies. micro-investment may have a big positive effect for most vulnerable communities in remote areas. as regards the large-scale projects, the eu assistance should be provided only for those which underwent thorough impact assessment taking into account all environmental and societal consequences. the eu should work with the relevant organisations and partner countries so the dam infrastructure is developed in an environmentally sound way. having said all that, it is important to ensure the visibility of the eu assistance provided to the relevant projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the eu's policy programme of aid to developing countries to address food security problems. it is clear that food shortages are hampering the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), particularly in sub-saharan africa and the least developed countries. new challenges, including climate change, biodiversity loss, land degradation and water quality, have affected the state of the world's food supply. i agree with the rapporteurs that, despite the strong commitment to the human rights to food, water, energy, etc., the institutions of the european union and the member states still do not consider the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition as a key strategic objective. to achieve the mdgs by 2015, it is therefore necessary to review and, if necessary, change eu strategies such as 'europe 2020', 'global europe', energy policy, sustainable development strategy and, in general, future eu development cooperation. the eu and its member states must also stand firm in their commitment to combating poverty and hunger globally in international organisations such as the world bank, the imf and the wto. i agree with the rapporteurs that the eu's trade strategy is a concern, focusing on competition and the market share of eu products, but lacking a development-oriented approach. the reduction of tariffs on agricultural products imported from developing countries should be further encouraged in order to promote the growth of the economies of those countries.
in writing. − the food crisis, especially in developing countries, poses a major threat to peace and security in the world. since august 2010, food prices have risen monthly (the trend over the last 10 years) and have now reached a level higher than the highest food price increase recorded in 2008. such price fluctuations have a significant impact on low-income countries and on the poorest, most vulnerable and most socially excluded people in developing countries. i agree that the european union and the member states must urgently promote new investment in agriculture and rural development, and take targeted measures to build up sufficient global stocks of basic foodstuffs, remove trade barriers and reduce the debt of the most affected countries. there is a global need for more sustainable, energy-efficient and efficient production, especially in view of the growing world population and the increasing demand for natural resources. i agree with the call for the commission and the member states to take concrete action to tackle effectively the problem of financial speculation in cereals and food.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is unacceptable that so many people are suffering from hunger today. the european parliament calls for urgent action to fulfil binding international commitments to make the right to adequate and nutritious food a reality, despite the many joint international efforts that have been made. parliament welcomed the commission communication on the european union's policy programme for food aid to developing countries, but considered that the global food crisis was not only an unprecedented humanitarian disaster but also a serious threat to peace and security in the world. while recognising the commission's commitment to finding solutions to help a billion people escape extreme poverty, the european union and the member states must urgently promote new investment in agriculture and rural development, in particular in the context of the new common agricultural policy, and implement targeted measures to build up sufficient global stocks of essential food products, remove self-imposed barriers to trade and reduce the debt of the most vulnerable countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it calls on the eu to support the un's minimum social security initiative, which would help meet the basic food needs of the poor. i think it is necessary to look at the structural causes of price fluctuations. speculation in derivatives of major food commodities has greatly increased food price volatility. it is therefore necessary to take concrete action to effectively tackle the problem of financial speculation in cereals and foodstuffs in a substantial way, so as not to distort trade.
in writing. − we must do everything we can to ensure that the eu can respond as quickly as possible in the event of a major famine. a weak response in the face of hundreds of thousands of deaths does little to improve the image of the eu, the world's largest donor, on the international stage. hunger and food shortages are not caused by natural disasters alone; their origins are programmed in one way or another in international trade. it is important to align eu trade and other sectoral policies in such a way that they contribute as little as possible to food shortages in developing countries. increasingly, the causes lie in the domestic politics, inefficient governance, and armed conflicts of the countries involved. i therefore believe that aid measures aimed at long-term development have a real impact. at the same time, african countries need to be encouraged to take a more active role in building shared prosperity on the continent and to establish a mechanism for collective assistance to citizens of african countries suffering from hunger and food shortages.
in writing. - hunger is one of the world's greatest scourges. in 2010, nearly a billion people were hungry, a quarter of the world's children under five years old were undernourished, and about a third of them die from hunger. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for urgent and far-reaching action to combat hunger. we call for an end to speculation in food prices, which distorts the market, raises prices. hungry people, especially in african countries, cannot afford the higher prices. the resolution also calls for an assessment of developments in the common agricultural policy and for enhanced cooperation between the eu and non-governmental organisations fighting hunger. the document encourages countries and regions where famine is common to store some of the food so that people do not go without food because of sudden changes in weather, political or other crises. since food is more important than energy, we propose that biofuels be stopped as long as there are hungry people in the world. it occupies vast areas of land that could be used for food production.
in writing. − this report was initiated at the request of the conference of committee chairs to the committee on constitutional affairs in order to clarify parliament's position on the meaning and legal status of unilateral statements in the minutes of council meetings. the most commonly contested declarations are made by one or more member states, as they are responsible for transposing legislation. an attempt to interpret those acts differently from the interpretation reached by the general agreement between the two legislators could indeed undermine the necessary consistency in the application of union law. the case-law of the court of justice confirms that such unilateral statements cannot be relied upon for the interpretation of union law. they may be used only where the reference relates to the content of the wording of the relevant act. i agree that unilateral statements by member states should not be published in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document because i consider that it is not to be incorporated into a legal text, but statements relating to it, whether issued by one or more member states, have no legal force and may undermine the coherence and clarity of the interpretation of union law. i am in favour of effective and transparent implementation of legislation throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on a new european trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy. we must recognise that the eu's prosperity and growth depend on a functioning international trading system. the commission should therefore present a forward-looking trade and investment strategy, but we, the members of the european parliament, miss this important aspect in the commission's communication of 9 november 2010 entitled 'trade, growth and the international arena: the future trade strategy of the european union'. i agree with the rapporteur that the policy guidelines proposed in the communication on trade, growth and the international arena are for the coming months, not a comprehensive trade strategy for the european union, which is particularly needed now, faced with the challenges of a rapidly changing world economy and dramatic shifts in the balance of economic forces. i therefore support the call in the resolution for the commission to carry out a forward-looking study which takes account of the current situation in the world economy in general and the current situation in the european union and the likely future developments. on this basis, the commission could develop a long-term strategy that takes full account of the needs of the european union and its citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. in 2000, when the lisbon strategy was launched, the union's gdp was 25% of world gdp. the union's contribution to global gdp is now projected to be only 18% in 2020. i agree that the union needs a coherent long-term strategy to take account of the challenges ahead and in particular the major emerging economies. such a strategy should be based on a thorough analysis of current trends in world trade and of developments within and outside the union, as well as of the diversity of european enterprises, practical experience and technological progress. i believe that the commission needs to review in depth bilateral trade relations with key trading partners to ensure that eu companies can compete on equal terms in third country markets.
in writing. − in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the commission published on 9 november 2010 a communication on 'trade, growth and the international arena' for the future trade strategy of the european union. while welcoming this communication, the european parliament calls on the commission to present as soon as possible a forward-looking and innovative strategy for the future of trade and investment in the light of the new challenges facing the european union. the eu needs a coherent long-term strategy to address the challenges ahead, especially for the major emerging economies. such a strategy should be based on a thorough analysis of current trends in world trade and of developments within and outside the union, as well as of the diversity of european enterprises, practical experience and technological progress. the european parliament also calls on the commission to systematically assess the impact of eu internal policies and regulations on global competitiveness and to give priority to those proposals which have the least negative impact on the competitiveness of eu enterprises in europe and beyond. it is therefore essential that the commission carries out a comprehensive study which takes into account the current situation in the world economy and the current situation in the european union and the likely future developments. on this basis, the commission could develop a long-term strategy that takes full account of the needs of the european union and its citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it calls on the commission to present as soon as possible a forward-looking and innovative future strategy on trade and investment in the light of the new challenges facing the eu, and to provide projections of what the so-called world of trade could look like in 15 or 20 years' time in policy planning and to use them as a basis for the preparation of a revised medium- and long-term strategy by summer 2013. the eu also has to take account of the fact that population growth is falling sharply within the eu, while developing countries are increasing even more. this will affect the economic situation of the countries. when we realise that 18% of jobs within the eu today, or 36 million jobs, depend on external trade, and that by 2015 90% of global economic growth is likely to be generated outside the european union, we understand the importance of developing and implementing a long-term external trade strategy that takes account of the eu's changing role in the global economy. in the light of these developments, i therefore supported the rapporteur's call for the commission to carry out a forward-looking study that takes into account the current situation in the world economy and the current situation in the eu and expected future developments. on this basis, the commission could develop a long-term strategy that takes full account of the needs of the eu and its citizens.
in writing. - colleagues, in the last seven months lithuania's trade has moved from the point of death. according to eurostat, lithuania's exports in the first half of 2011 amounted to eur 9,7 billion, up 41% compared to the first half of 2010 (eur 6,8 billion). our imports also increased by 42% to eur 11 billion. but there is no limit to perfection. lithuania needs an ambitious new eu trade policy to make better use of its trade potential. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's communication on trade and growth does not contain a forward-looking trade policy. while recognising that our prosperity and growth depend on the functioning of the international trading system, it offers only policy guidelines for the next few months, rather than a long-term strategy for the eu, even as we face the challenges of a rapidly changing economic world and dramatic shifts in the balance of economic forces. i believe that the eu should pay more attention to the human rights of its trading partners. respect for human rights and democratic principles must be an essential element of the eu's trade policy. that's not in dispute.
madam president, let me share something with you the house. peace must be negotiated in order to achieve a negotiated peace. that peace is a priority, as it brings with it all other solutions about secure borders, settlements and refugees. that priority of peace can only be negotiated by men and women of peace. people of conflict cannot negotiate peace.
for the efd group the eastern partnership summit in warsaw will be a good opportunity to assess progress and further develop the strategic guidelines for the eastern partnership policy. it is important that nuclear safety be given special attention at this meeting, among other issues. in particular, the safety aspect of the construction of new nuclear power plants in the european union should be addressed. the plans of russia and belarus to build new nuclear power plants on the eastern borders of the european union could significantly weaken the nuclear and ecological security not only of the eastern states but also of europe as a whole. the eu should also make every effort to continue the visa liberalisation process with moldova and ukraine and negotiations on free trade agreements. i also agree with the comments of my colleagues h. swoboda and e. brok on the problem of j. timoshenko. the eastern partnership policy is of great importance and significance for lithuania. the eastern neighbourhood policy will be one of the priorities of lithuania's forthcoming presidency of the european union. we will make every effort to strengthen the rapprochement between the eastern partnership countries and the european union during our presidency. i propose that one eastern partnership summit be held in lithuania during the lithuanian presidency.
in writing. – i look forward to an ambitious eastern partnership summit in warsaw. a far-reaching joint declaration should outline concrete goals to be achieved for the next two years until the eap summit in 2013. the main pillar of the eap should remain the european perspective for partners who are willing and able to perform according to the values enshrined in article 49 of the european treaty. next steps should be: fast-forward towards increased mobility for eap countries – mutual commitments to start up remaining visa dialogues (georgia) and negotiations on vfra (armenia, azerbaijan and with belarus); start of dcfta negotiations with moldova and georgia. conclusion of the negotiations with ukraine by the end of 2011 would make a much needed success story. building lively and strong eu and eap relations is needed for both sides; its success lies in the coordinated actions of all eu institutions and all eu member states. if we want to create an area of stability, shared values and progress surrounding europe, it is important to consider carefully and strike the right balance between both enp vectors.
mr president, let me recall one of the ideas that our colleague mr zahradil has just expressed about the eu just turning into a debt union. the debt of one becomes the debt of all. we may indeed consider that case, as debt will be covered by all without priority, without final consequences for a debtor. it reminds me and some of us here as being analogous with the soviet kolkhoz system, which was exactly the same or very similar: that of total irresponsibility by inefficient or corrupted kolkhoz management throughout the whole agriculture sector, because all wrongdoing or mistakes by individual managers and the political leadership were regularly covered by the state in the name of doctrine and a special sense of solidarity with an inefficient soviet socialism. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. your statement, mr president of the commission, that the european union needs to be renewed is undeniable. the ongoing and deepening crisis makes it abundantly clear that the current eu governance model is unable to respond to complex situations and to mobilise the political will to take possibly radical but unavoidable decisions. the only way for us to survive as a union in solidarity and unity is to fundamentally revise the whole eu governance model. the commission must become the body that sets the general guidelines for economic governance and has full powers to supervise the economies of the member states. without a clear economic governance structure, the proposed economic governance and coordination measures will not create the conditions for greater economic integration and coordination of member states' economies and financial market surveillance.
in writing. − i supported the council's position, which increases by almost eur 41.1 million the budget for commitment appropriations for managing migration and refugee flows (through the frontex agency, the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund). this increase is linked to eu measures and to the political processes in the countries of the southern mediterranean.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it represents an increase in the 2011 budget commitments under heading 3a to manage refugee and migration flows following the recent developments in north africa. this is financed by reallocating funds and/or by allocating additional funds to commitments and by reallocating payments in full.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to denmark. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. denmark applied for aid in relation to 813 redundancies in 6 enterprises active in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 3 944 606.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 11 may 2010, denmark submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies (813 workers) in six enterprises active in the machinery and equipment sector in the region of central jutland. one of the commission's assessment criteria is the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade or financial crises. in this particular case, the structural changes brought about by globalisation have had a serious impact on the wind turbine industry in the eu. furthermore, according to the danish authorities, the rapid expansion of the global wind energy sector did not allow for the reduction of employment in central jutland. the harmonised package of tailor-made services to be financed, including its compatibility with actions financed by the structural funds, includes explanatory and reorientation measures (to clarify the objectives and plans of the workers), additional support for further education and training, an innovation laboratory (with a particular focus on the development of the skills of the workers to prepare them for work in enterprises already operating on the basis of green technologies), a guidance programme, consultancy on qualifications, job-search allowances and mobility allowances.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to germany. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. germany requested aid for 778 redundancies in 5 enterprises active in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 4 347 868.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 9 february 2011, germany submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies (778) in five enterprises active in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer sectors in the regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf. one of the commission's assessment criteria is the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade or financial crises. in this particular case, it is the decrease in demand for new motor vehicles in the eu following the global financial and economic crisis. according to the german authorities, the 778 redundancies mentioned in this application will further increase the high unemployment rate in the regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf, which have already been severely affected by the closure of the nokia plant in bochum and the general motors plant. the following measures are included in the harmonised package of personalised services to be financed, including its compatibility with actions financed by the structural funds: short-term job-search allowances, training courses, comprehensive guidance for starting up a business, workshops for workers with practical and similar qualifications, guidance, promotion of activism, employment surveys, etc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting financial aid to portugal. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. portugal applied for aid for 974 redundancies in one enterprise, but the redundancy also affected the neighbouring municipality. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 1 449 500.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 17 august 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of portugal in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. one of the commission's assessment criteria is the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade or financial crises. in this particular case, portugal points out that the clothing and footwear sectors have been particularly badly affected by the crisis. these sectors have been strongly affected by external factors such as the decrease in the purchasing power of consumers. the economic downturn had a negative impact on the labour market, with an increase in unemployment, which affected consumer confidence. the following measures are included in the harmonised package of personalised services to be financed, including the compatibility with actions financed by the structural funds, in order to reintegrate workers into the labour market: information and guidance, recognition, validation and certification of skills, vocational training, training grants for self-employed persons, support for self-employment, business support, support for setting up a new enterprise, integration plans, etc.
written. − on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the argentine republic pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the course of their accession to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document as it aims to conclude an agreement with argentina, with the inclusion of bulgaria and romania. these agreements address two issues in order to implement wto requirements. first, the compensation for the higher duty rates to be compensated. the most common method is to open a country's tariff quota or to increase existing quotas. secondly, the pre-accession erga omnes tariff quota for bulgaria and romania (not allocated to a specific country but open to the whole world) has to be added to the existing eu erga omnes tariff quotas. the agreement covers boneless beef (argentina), boneless buffalo (argentina) and the increase of the erga omnes tariff quota for common wheat, barley, malted barley and maize. argentina is entitled to claim the restoration of its trade rights, which have been somewhat adversely affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of romania and bulgaria. the objective of a customs union or a free trade area should be to facilitate trade within the territories forming the union and not to create obstacles to trade with other countries which have concluded agreements with those territories. this agreement demonstrates once again the eu's commitment to respecting multilateral trade rules. i believe that the commission has chosen correctly the method of increasing the tariff quota for the products concerned for argentina, as it is the most appropriate measure to compensate the country which deserves compensation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council's decision. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu has enlarged its customs union. the eu is therefore obliged under wto rules to enter into negotiations with wto members with a negotiating power over any acceding country's list of commitments with a view to agreeing on a countervailing adjustment. such adjustment is mandatory if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in the customs duties in relation to the duties for which the acceding country has committed itself to the wto. this contract refers to a sheep and a goat. australia has the right to demand that its trading rights, which have been somewhat adversely affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of romania and bulgaria, be restored. the commission proposed the method of increasing the tariff quota for the products concerned as the most appropriate compensatory measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document as it aims to conclude an agreement with australia involving bulgaria and romania. these agreements address two issues in order to implement wto requirements. first, the compensation for the higher duty rates to be compensated. the most common method is to open a country's tariff quota or to increase existing quotas. secondly, the pre-accession erga omnes tariff quota for bulgaria and romania (not allocated to a specific country but open to the whole world) has to be added to the existing eu erga omnes tariff quotas. this agreement covers sheep and goats. australia has the right to demand that its trading rights, which have been somewhat adversely affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of romania and bulgaria, be restored. the objective of a customs union or a free trade area should be to facilitate trade within the territories forming the union and not to create obstacles to trade with other countries which have concluded agreements with those territories. this agreement demonstrates once again the eu's commitment to respecting multilateral trade rules. i believe that the commission has chosen the correct method of increasing the tariff quota for australia for the products concerned, as this is the most appropriate measure to compensate the country which deserves compensation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council's decision. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu has enlarged its customs union. the eu is therefore obliged under wto rules to enter into negotiations with wto members with a negotiating power over any acceding country's list of commitments with a view to agreeing on a countervailing adjustment. such adjustment is mandatory if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in the customs duties in relation to the duties for which the acceding country has committed itself to the wto. this contract covers sheepmeat and goatmeat and high-quality beef. new zealand has the right to demand that its trading rights, which have been somewhat adversely affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of romania and bulgaria, be restored. the commission proposed the method of increasing the tariff quota for the products concerned as the most appropriate compensatory measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document as it aims to conclude an agreement with new zealand involving bulgaria and romania. these agreements address two issues in order to implement wto requirements. first, the compensation for the higher duty rates to be compensated. the most common method is to open a country's tariff quota or to increase existing quotas. secondly, the pre-accession erga omnes tariff quota for bulgaria and romania (not allocated to a specific country but open to the whole world) has to be added to the existing eu erga omnes tariff quotas. this agreement covers sheep and goat (for australia and new zealand) and high-quality beef. new zealand has the right to demand that its trading rights, which have been somewhat adversely affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union following the accession of romania and bulgaria, be restored. the objective of a customs union or a free trade area should be to facilitate trade within the territories forming the union and not to create obstacles to trade with other countries which have concluded agreements with those territories. this agreement demonstrates once again the eu's commitment to respecting multilateral trade rules. i believe that the commission has chosen the correct method of increasing the tariff quota for new zealand for the products concerned, as this is the most appropriate measure to compensate the country which deserves compensation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the economic and financial crisis has highlighted the need to reconsider the framework of economic and monetary union in order to strengthen the instruments available and to extend the procedures for coordination and multilateral surveillance. the economic governance package consists of six proposals to improve the coordination and surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union (emu) in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester, a new cycle of surveillance combining the process with the provisions of the stability and growth pact and the broad economic policy guidelines. the two proposals under examination relate to the excessive deficit procedure. the other four proposals concern the multilateral surveillance system. this proposal for a regulation lays down provisions to ensure the prudent conduct of fiscal policies and the sustainability of public finances in the member states. despite these precise guidelines, the current economic situation indicates that progress towards the medium-term objectives has been broadly insufficient. moreover, it has become clear in practice that the structural balance sheet is not a suitable measure to assess the country's underlying fiscal position. the proposed regulation therefore provides for specific rules to ensure coordination of economic policies and activities in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the proposal for a regulation on enforcement measures to address excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area extends the process of economic surveillance, which is partly laid down in the stability and growth pact. budgetary and fiscal surveillance thus complement the mechanism that can help to identify, avoid and correct macroeconomic imbalances. the eu needs greater economic surveillance, which should cover all relevant sectors of the economy. macroeconomic imbalances should therefore be considered in conjunction with fiscal policies and structural reforms to stimulate economic growth. the mechanism for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances consists of two sets of draft proposals. the first set of measures is summarised in the proposal for a regulation on the excessive imbalance procedure, which aims to establish a framework for identifying and resolving macroeconomic imbalances. the second draft proposal focuses on ensuring the implementation of measures to address excessive macroeconomic imbalances. it is only applicable to member states that have adopted the euro and provides an incentive for member states to address macroeconomic imbalances as early as possible and to ensure that appropriate corrective measures are taken where necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the proposal for the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances complements the multilateral surveillance regime provided for under the europe 2020 strategy by introducing a completely new element, namely the excessive imbalance procedure. this proposal establishes a framework for the identification and resolution of macroeconomic imbalance problems. this proposal should be examined together with the regulation on enforcement measures to address excessive macroeconomic imbalances. both these acts constitute a fully-fledged mechanism for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. the eu needs greater economic surveillance, which should cover all relevant sectors of the economy. macroeconomic imbalances should therefore be considered in conjunction with fiscal policies and structural reforms to stimulate economic growth. a trend can be identified which is characterised by the extension of economic policy surveillance beyond budgetary surveillance to avoid excessive macroeconomic imbalances, but also by the strengthening of fiscal surveillance. this procedure should provide for an alert mechanism to detect emerging macroeconomic imbalances at an early stage. it should be based on the use of a benchmark and a transparent scoreboard with reference thresholds and an economic assessment. this assessment should take into account, inter alia, nominal and real convergence within and outside the euro area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the purpose of the regulation is to avoid major budgetary policy errors that could put the sustainability of public finances at risk. this is achieved by obliging member states to avoid excessive government deficits, which are determined on the basis of two main criteria: deficit and debt. the excessive deficit procedure (edp), which implements the prohibition on running an excessive deficit, provides for a sequence of actions to be taken. this system is based on an enforcement mechanism which provides for financial penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of this regulation. the corrective arm of the stability and growth pact needs to be reformed to address the weaknesses that have emerged in the wake of the economic and financial crisis. the proposal therefore focuses on the following measures: the introduction of the pdp debt criterion. this measure responds to the fact that the debt criterion has hitherto played a secondary role, whereas both criteria (deficit and debt) should be equivalent; imposes new financial penalties on euro area member states to prevent and, if they do, to correct excessive general deficits as soon as possible; and provides for a clearer and more flexible framework for the commission to make possible recommendations. the main objective of this proposal is therefore to prevent and correct the excessive deficit, to avoid major budgetary policy errors and to lay down the detailed rules to be followed in the context of the excessive deficit procedure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the main objective of this proposal is to promote fiscal responsibility by setting minimum requirements for national systems and to ensure the effectiveness of the excessive deficit procedure. the aim is to lay down detailed rules to be followed in the context of the excessive deficit procedure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union and its member states should ensure respect for human rights in their policies and the european union's position in the united nations human rights council should be stronger and more important. although we live in a democracy and make every effort to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms, there is still a great deal of concern about the high number of human rights violations and widespread discrimination based on gender identity, both within the european union and in third countries. this resolution adopted by the un human rights council is therefore important in ensuring the respect and implementation of international human rights standards, in order to avoid discrimination against people. it should also be noted that respect for, and promotion and protection of, the universality of human rights are part of the european union's ethical and legal obligations. it is important that member states cooperate more closely with third countries through their participation in the procedures of the universal periodic review and the treaty supervisory authorities in order to ensure consistency between the external and internal action of the european union in the field of human rights, as provided for in the treaty on european union. moreover, member states and the commission should jointly address these manifestations of inequality in full.
in fact, in view of the current economic situation on the labour market, there is no need to extend the exceptional provisions until 2013. the answer is unequivocal. however, it is also necessary to assess the existing, overly bureaucratic procedures for the operation of the fund. however, a deadline of one year or even more is very bad, and as stated in our resolution, it should not exceed six months before the state receives the appropriate support. secondly, it is really worthwhile to look very closely at the fact that the member states applying for this aid would be able to receive an advance payment, i.e. an advance, in a much shorter period of time, in order to be able to provide real and rapid assistance to the unemployed. and i really agree and i stand in solidarity with those colleagues who have said that the social partners must be involved in this activity. mr commissioner, perhaps it is possible to find out why countries with high unemployment rates do not turn to this globalisation fund. could this help them?
madam president, i should like to thank mr pirillo for raising this very important issue. the use of binding commitments will require proper measures in order to implement them and to shift our industry to a green and sustainable path. however, we will also have to carefully consider the possible negative impacts on certain industry sectors which are dependent on higher consumption of electricity and which, without certain compensatory mechanisms, risk losing their competitiveness both inside and outside the eu. china, for example, has the fastest-growing steel sector in the world and the eu has become its biggest export market. i believe that the commission has to carefully and responsibly address those issues in the upcoming state aid guidelines and to find a sound compromise between the eu’s commitments and the viability and competitiveness of our industry sector, which are inseparable from the overall growth and prosperity of the eu.
for the efd group body scanners that use microwave or x-rays to illuminate the human body detect liquids, liquids or plastic explosives that are not detected by metal detectors. sadly, they reveal not only what is hidden under clothing but also the whole human body. i believe that body scanners can only be included in the list of acceptable methods of inspection after, i stress, a thorough scientifically based impact assessment by an independent body. this assessment shall take into account the direct and delayed effects and the long-term cumulative effects on human health, risks to personal data, personal dignity and privacy. i would suggest that we reconsider the use of body scanners as an alternative. less invasive technologies must be used, which are fully reliable, do not violate fundamental rights and do not pose a risk to human health. it is necessary to provide for separate rules for sensitive or vulnerable passengers, such as pregnant women, children, disabled persons or those with diseases which make such screening unsuitable.
in writing. body scanners, as one of the possible technical solutions for safe air travel, are a very serious issue for the safety of citizens through the use of innovative technologies, and i am pleased that the commission is today presenting an assessment of the impact of body scanners on personal health and fundamental human rights. while ensuring the safety of air transport is undoubtedly very important and necessary, we must examine the impact of the measures designed to ensure such safety on our health, fundamental rights, privacy, dignity and data protection. in its resolution on the impact of body scanners, and in more than one debate, the european parliament expressed concern about the potential violation of the human right to privacy, the health effects of radiation and the justification of the costs of special equipment. therefore, before we start using body scanners, we need to know in particular whether these technical security measures will provide effective protection of persons during air travel and whether they will be genuinely safe, effective and reasonable. i would also like to point out that the introduction of new technical measures aimed at achieving a high level of security at airports is also essential to establish the boundaries between human rights and security itself, since these measures concern not only the protection of citizens but also their impact on their health, rights and freedoms.
i voted in favour of this resolution, which more or less reflects the european union's general and realistic approach to sustainable development. i am particularly pleased that paragraph 46 has softened the position on the total abandonment of nuclear energy. such calls do not reflect the capabilities of many countries, and i am glad that the european parliament understands this. we all want a cleaner environment, but the complete abandonment of nuclear energy would of course increase co2 emissions and also increase the threat to energy independence. the energy mix is a matter for the member states, but it is important to ensure high safety standards, including for nuclear energy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine and the common organisation of the market in wine, as amended by the council regulation of 17 december 2000 on the common organisation of the market in wine, is designed to ensure that the quality of wine is not affected by the presence of certain dangerous substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established in 2006 to provide solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of changes in the world trade system. the egf shall be mobilised in order to provide financial support to the following target groups: in view of the scale and speed of the changes caused by the financial and economic crisis in 2008, the commission envisaged in its european economic recovery plan a revision of the egf regulation with a view to extending the scope of the egf to allow the egf to respond more effectively to the european crisis and to become a more effective instrument for early intervention. the regulation was amended by reducing the number of redundancies required to apply for egf support from 1 000 to 500 and extending the implementation period of measures supported by the egf from 12 to 24 months. the temporary derogation expires on 30 december 2011 and the proposal therefore proposes to extend it until 31 december 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the commission proposes to extend the temporary derogation for workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis until the end of 2013. in view of the scale and speed of the changes caused by the financial and economic crisis in 2008, the commission envisaged a revision of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 in its european economic recovery plan. the purpose of this amendment was to extend the scope of the egf in order to allow the egf to respond more effectively to the european crisis and to become a more effective instrument for early intervention. the number of redundancies required to apply for egf support has been reduced from 1 000 to 500 and the implementation period for measures supported by the egf has been extended from 12 to 24 months. a temporary derogation was introduced in order to (1) extend the scope of the egf to provide direct support to workers made redundant as a result of the financial and economic crisis and (2) increase the overall rate of egf financing from 50% to 65%. the temporary derogation shall expire on 30 december 2011.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. during the 66th session of the united nations general assembly, president of the palestinian national authority mahmoud abbas asked for recognition of the state of palestine and its admission to the united nations. as early as 29 november 1947, the un general assembly, in its resolution 181, called for the establishment of two states in the territory of the former british mandate of palestine. at an informal meeting on 2 and 3 september 2011, the foreign ministers of the eu member states presented different positions in their discussions on the middle east peace process and the relevant diplomatic initiatives to be taken during the september session of the united nations general assembly. i support the call in the resolution for the eu and its member states to take a common position on this issue and to play a more active role, also within the quartet, in efforts to achieve peace between the israelis and the palestinians.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the governments of the eu member states to continue to work towards a common eu position on the palestinian authority's application for un membership and to avoid a fragmentation of the member states. all member states need to unite and support the legitimate aspirations of the palestinian people to be represented as a state at the united nations following the conclusion of negotiations at the 66th session of the general assembly. the international community, including the eu and its member states, must reaffirm its strong commitment to the security of the state of israel. peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. and any solution reached should not be seen as demeaning to either side.
in writing. − the international community is interested in peace in the middle east. peaceful and secure coexistence in the neighbourhood of the state of israel and the state of palestine can only be achieved through bilateral negotiations. the raising of the question of the membership of the palestinian territories in the united nations does not in any way change the need for bilateral dialogue. i hope that both sides will be able to sit down at the negotiating table in the near future, in accordance with the framework proposed by the quartet.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. despite the progress made in sustainable development since the rio summit in 1992 and the johannesburg summit in 2002, many global development issues remain unresolved and many commitments of the international community have not yet been fully implemented. some 1.4 billion people continue to live in extreme poverty, and challenges such as climate change and global population growth pose major threats to poverty reduction, human rights, peace and security, and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) in many developing countries. the un general assembly decided to convene a united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro in june 2012 at the highest possible level, where world leaders would be given the opportunity to set the sustainability agenda for the next 10 years, reaffirming the need for global solidarity. i support the call for the parties to be represented at the level of heads of state and/or government and for the summit to set specific and concrete objectives and ways of assessing and monitoring them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20) will be held in rio de janeiro in 2012 and will focus on two themes: the ecological economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication, and the institutional framework for sustainable development. despite the progress made in sustainable development, many issues related to implementation gaps and challenges remain unaddressed, and many commitments of the international community have not yet been fully implemented. the rio+20 summit provides an excellent opportunity to strengthen political commitment to sustainable development at the global level and to strengthen the partnership between industrialized and developing countries. the summit rio+20 must present not only goodwill statements but also concrete actions and measurable targets, as well as ways of evaluating them. justice is the foundation for the fundamental changes that are needed and should be implemented at the global level, creating opportunities for less and least developed countries, with the help of developed countries, to shorten the conventional development path and achieve higher levels of human well-being. the rio+20 summit should discuss an integrated approach to tackling a range of issues, such as poverty eradication, health, food, employment, gender equality and energy supply. these problems cannot be solved in isolation, which makes cooperation all the more important. it is imperative to make rapid progress in ensuring the effectiveness of the existing international environmental legal framework.
in writing. the rio+20 united nations conference on sustainable development will meet in june 2012 and will be hosted by the united nations. although the past twenty years since the founding of this conference have seen some achievement, broader trends show the world headed away from truly sustainable development. in the last twenty years, the world has seen terrible poverty, a greater chasm between the rich and the poor, worsening soils, and an overall negative footprint of humanity on the earth. the world can't go on like this. i voted in favour of this resolution because it states that the wild capitalist economy must be determined as one that destroys the environment and endangers people which is not acceptable. a sustainable economy must be developed. sustainability requires commitment from a local level all the way to the global level. a framework needs to be developed that will help economies of european countries encourage management of natural resources so they are not over-exploited. additionally, there is the issue of intergenerational justice and fairness; future generations should not have to pay the costs of the current generation.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the egf was established to support measures targeting workers most affected by the mass redundancies caused by globalisation or by the financial and economic crisis in the european union and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the egf was designed as an emergency measure to intervene in the event of massive redundancies in order to avoid long-term unemployment in difficult labour market conditions. in 2009, under the economic recovery plan, its mandate was extended to cover redundancies due to the financial and economic crisis. the main additional benefit of the renewed egf would be effective support for the training and retraining of workers to help them find a job again in the event of a difficult labour market situation due to unforeseen restructuring of companies or sectors, which leads to or increases the mismatch of job skills. such a measure would be a useful complement to the measures financed by the esf, which aim in particular to help adapt to global challenges, and would contribute to sustainable economic growth. this measure would ensure eu solidarity with workers affected by the adverse effects of restructuring and, on the other hand, allow all member states to benefit from timely, targeted and tailor-made assistance to avoid long-term unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the egf was set up to support measures for workers who are most affected by mass redundancies due to globalisation or the financial and economic crisis in the eu and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. in the vast majority of cases, the egf was used to offset the impact of staff reductions due to the financial and economic crisis. i support the commission's proposal to extend the temporary derogation for workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis until the end of 2013. and i believe that member states need to make more use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to achieve european objectives and to foster new skills, including the skills needed to create new sustainable, green, high-quality jobs. the egf should continue to finance only those active labour market measures which, in the event of massive job cuts, complement the measures provided for under national law. in future, the payments supported by the egf should always be linked to training and retraining measures also financed by the egf and should not replace payments provided for under national or community law or collective agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the first protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco expired on 28 february 2011 and a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the kingdom of morocco was signed on 13 july 2011. the conclusion of the new protocol requires the consent of the european parliament before it can be finally adopted by the council. the new protocol also applies to the waters off western sahara, which has been included in the united nations list of non-self-governing territories since 1963. in order to comply with the provisions of international law, the economic activities of a non-autonomous territory relating to natural resources must be carried out in the interests of the population of that territory and in accordance with its wishes. there is therefore legal uncertainty as to whether the new protocol is compatible with international law as regards the social and economic interests of the non-autonomous territory of western sahara and the exploitation of its natural resources and, consequently, as regards the compatibility of this protocol with the treaties in this respect. i consider that the court of justice should give an opinion on the compatibility of that protocol with the treaties.
in writing. the schengen area is one of the fundamental foundations of the european union, which consolidates the solidarity of the eu countries and ensures the free movement of citizens. romania and bulgaria have fulfilled all the criteria for accession to the schengen area. this was also acknowledged by independent experts. however, a political campaign by some eu countries has been launched to prevent the two countries from joining on the grounds of corruption and organised crime. these are serious wounds for romania and bulgaria. but slamming the schengen doors is not the best way to treat them. the legacy of these two nations beyond the schengen area contributes to the creation of a two-speed eu. i agree with the proposal that this issue should be analysed in depth and that a decision should be taken by the european council of heads of state or government. i congratulate poland on its presidency of the eu, which is also seeking a swift and smooth solution.
mr president, in yemen we observe a situation where initially peaceful protests against the rule of president saleh have been overtaken by an increasingly violent power struggle among government forces and tribal militias. anti-government demonstrations persist throughout major cities, the economy is collapsing, violence is ubiquitous, shortages of electricity and fuel are evident and outlying provinces are no longer under government control, but in some cases in the hands of islamic militants, some of whom are associated with al-qa’ida. although yemen’s death toll is low in comparison with some other arab spring countries, this number has been rising, and if there is no immediate help from outside it could lead to the disintegration of the country and civil war. i would say to the high representative that we should prevent this scenario from becoming a reality. in egypt, there is an alarming wave of concern regarding the christian community’s deteriorating conditions. we must stress the need for egypt to ban all discrimination based on religion, language, gender or ethnicity. i would urge the high representative to use all the instruments at her disposal to ensure that the rights of minorities are upheld and implemented and that the universal rights of peaceful protest and religious freedom are respected.
in writing. the continuing tensions in the middle east are a matter of grave concern. not just for the present, but for the future. we look forward to the elections in egypt on 28 november, in the hope of stability and democratic development in that country. but the trends of recent months - the arrests and trials of civilians by military courts, the recent clashes with christian protesters, the attacks on the israeli embassy - indicate that tensions are rising. whether consciously or not, the division of egypt is escalating. the current leadership must ensure the fundamental rights of all egyptians, including religious minorities, and address the issue of inter-religious tensions. we must find out who is responsible for the deaths of 25 protesters in the recent clashes and hold those responsible to account. egypt remains under a state of emergency, with restrictions on freedom of the press and assembly. unfortunately, it is difficult to imagine preparing for a democratic election under these conditions. the responsibility for correcting this situation lies with the interim military council, which still enjoys the confidence of the world's democracies.
just a few thoughts on the evaluation of this comprehensive report. firstly, the current mechanisms and methods of collecting value added tax are hopelessly outdated and the sooner we replace them, the better off we all will be, especially in the face of the crisis. secondly, the reform of the vat system should be implemented in an operational manner, but with due regard for the needs of consumers, who are one of the main actors covering the costs of this tax and its inefficiency. thirdly, it is essential to ensure that member states are able to decide for themselves whether to apply a lower value added tax rate in areas of interest to them.
in writing. the united states is also currently experiencing a deep economic and financial crisis and is looking for ways to get out of it as quickly as possible. the recent american jobs act aims to create as many jobs as possible, to put people who have lost their jobs back into jobs, and to invest as much money as possible in employment policies. this legislation was passed by congress and the united states hopes that the country's economy will move forward. the european union is committed to the economic recovery of the united states, which is one of the most important markets in the global economy. the european parliament stresses the need to remove existing barriers to global trade, as we need to strengthen transatlantic trade relations. the european union itself also has to combat the current rising levels of unemployment, poor working conditions, poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - i voted for this document. international air links between member states and third countries have traditionally been established by bilateral air services agreements. in 2002, the court of justice of the eu ruled that traditional bilateral air services agreements between member states infringe eu law as they allow a third party to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisation or licence of an air carrier designated by a member state but whose majority shareholding is not owned by that member state or its national entity and which is not effectively controlled by them. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees that nationals of member states enjoying freedom of establishment may enjoy the same rights as nationals of that member state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as, in this case, the republic of cape verde has concluded eight bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which must be replaced or supplemented by provisions of a single agreement at eu level. this single agreement includes: the possibility for all eu carriers to exercise the right of establishment, the issue and withdrawal of authorisations, and a clear statement that, in exercising its rights, the republic of cape verde shall not discriminate against air carriers of member states on the basis of their nationality. the taxation of aviation fuel is also ensured in line with council directive 2003/96/ec on the taxation of energy products. it is worth noting that the eu competition rules will take precedence over the provisions of bilateral agreements.
in writing. − i support this resolution on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on certain aspects of air services, given that the republic of cape verde has concluded eight bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which need to be replaced or supplemented by provisions of a single agreement at european union level in order to ensure their compatibility with european union law. first, we must prevent discrimination against air carriers from member states on the basis of their nationality. air services must be provided on non-discriminatory terms and conditions, based on a sound legal basis. it is also essential to ensure that carriers are given favourable conditions for operating on routes connecting the eu and these third countries and for exercising the right of establishment on an equal basis.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report which depicts how the eu can use insurance guarantee schemes (igs), in order to ensure that the risks facing policyholders in the event of the failure of an insurance entity are reduced. this report aims at strengthening support for consumer protection in four main areas: ensuring customer protection in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurer; ensuring equal consumer protection regardless of the ‘home’ state of the insurer; ensuring consumer protection in the event of fraud or mis-selling; and ensuring taxpayer protection in the event of igs failure. i support the rapporteur’s view that these policy goals can be adequately met by a minimum harmonisation directive that ensures the same level of consumer protection regardless of the location of the insurer writing the policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the purpose of insurance guarantee schemes (igs) is to provide protection for consumers in cases where insurance undertakings are no longer able to meet their contractual obligations. these schemes will protect people from the risk of claims not being met and their insurance company becoming insolvent. the protection provided by the dgs often varies, which makes the protection of insurers different in different member states. the conditions for the provision of sme loans remain uncoordinated at eu level, which hinders the effective and uniform protection of consumers and disrupts the functioning of the internal insurance market. this leads to a loss of consumer confidence, threatens market stability and distorts cross-border competition. i agree that, in the light of the experience gained during the last crisis, it is necessary to develop harmonised insurance guarantee systems in order to overcome existing shortcomings and restore consumer confidence. national and european supervisory authorities, in particular the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), must apply robust risk mitigation rules and effective supervision consistently to ensure a high level of consumer protection and the proper functioning of the insurance market.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes (igs) can be a valuable tool in reducing the risk that insurers would face if an insurance company went bankrupt. the current wide variety of insurance guarantee schemes in the member states, offering different levels of consumer protection across different products and financing systems, has resulted in inefficient and uneven protection of insurers and has slowed down the functioning of the insurance market in the face of cross-border competition, due to the lack of harmonisation of the gmps at european level and the different regimes in the member states. consumer confidence in financial services in the internal market can only be ensured by a consistent level of consumer protection, irrespective of the origin of the service provider, in particular by the consistent application of sound risk mitigation rules and effective supervision by the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and, where applicable, by the national competent authorities. the commission is invited to submit proposals for a cross-border standardisation directive establishing a coherent and harmonised cross-border insurance guarantee system in all member states. we must put the protection of consumers against the bankruptcy of loss insurance companies at the top of our agenda, and for this reason, and for the reasons mentioned above, i have voted in favour of this document.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because a coherent and harmonised system of insurance guarantee rules must function at european union level and the different regimes in the member states must be abolished. it should be noted that the insurance guarantee scheme is an effective instrument that reduces the risks of insurers, ensures different levels of consumer protection and effective cross-border competition. it is therefore essential to ensure that european rules provide a high and appropriate level of protection. given that many consumers lose some or all of their assets and are left in poverty as a result of the bankruptcy of insurance companies, i believe it is appropriate to establish in the resolution the principle of the home member state, under which the liability for the burden of bankruptcy would be assumed by the insurance guarantee scheme of the home member state. only then will people be protected from the risk of claims not being satisfied if their insurance company goes bankrupt. it should be noted that this principle, as a measure of last resort for the protection of consumers, should be applied only in exceptional cases where insurance undertakings are unable to meet contractual obligations due to insolvency and where other regulatory instruments have been exhausted.
in writing. - colleagues, only a few member states have insurance guarantee schemes. the rapporteur recalls that the lack of harmonisation in this area at community level hinders the effective and uniform protection of consumers. this may lead to consumer distrust and ultimately to a risk to market stability. consumer protection is a very important issue for lithuania. a recent world bank report states that consumer protection legislation in the financial services sector is not being implemented uniformly in my country. the eurobarometer survey on consumer protection in europe showed that lithuanian consumers need a better consumer protection programme. in addition, additional funding is needed to ensure more effective activities of lithuanian consumer associations. lithuania has over 20 consumer associations, but only a few in the financial services sector. some consumer associations receive limited funding from the government, but this is not enough. government funding should be complemented by funding from european agencies or bilateral agreements with established european consumer associations. measures to improve consumer protection and financial literacy must be pragmatic and effective and empower consumers. they should include improving consumer information on financial services and promoting market transparency. in the case of lithuania, this also means strengthening the functions of the state consumer protection service in implementing legislation related to consumer protection in the financial services sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. more than 40 years after the introduction of value added tax in the then european economic community, it is time to take a critical look at the vat system in order to increase the compatibility of that system with the common market and the capacity of the vat system as a source of revenue, while increasing its economic efficiency and stability. the eu currently has a fragmented vat system with different rates and a wide range of exemptions, which distorts competition in the internal market and creates opportunities for fraud. governments suffer huge losses each year, which can reach up to eur 100 billion, as a result of vat fraud. i believe that eu-wide vat reform is a necessary condition for strengthening the more efficient functioning of the internal market, increasing the competitiveness of the eu and protecting the community's interests against possible fraud in the future and ensuring higher revenues for the member states and the eu budgets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it aims to thoroughly examine and reform the current vat system. i believe that the vat system should reduce the operating costs of users and the costs of administrative authorities, and should also combat fraud, which is a major burden on public finances and consumers. member states should better implement the measures proposed by the commission in 2009 to reduce the administrative burden of eu vat legislation, namely to reduce the frequency of periodic vat returns, to simplify the evidence required for exemption from vat on exports, to abolish the establishment of zero intra-eu sales lists, to increase the use of e-government decisions in line with the provisions of the digital agenda for europe (in particular with regard to the electronic submission of vat returns and lists), to abolish the payment of interest and penalties for vat-related errors where no vat revenue loss has been incurred by the individual legal person concerned in the member state, and to consider the eu-wide application of a common vat refund procedure, a common vat multiplier and a common electronic vat storage system. the highest priority at this stage is to address the lack of harmonisation and to meet the need for standardisation of procedures and to reduce language barriers, as well as to reduce the vulnerability of the system to fraud. i am convinced that the business community needs clear vat rules that increase legal certainty and increase the likelihood that they will be interpreted in the same way across the member states.
in writing. − a single vat system, when implemented across the european union in the future, will undoubtedly contribute to the promotion of trade between member states and to the eu's international competitiveness. however, in order to do so, we must not forget a number of key aspects that have been highlighted in our report. this is in particular the need to reduce the number of administrative obstacles faced by vat payers in the eu member states. second, the need to allow member states a certain degree of discretion in the application of the principle of subsidiarity, without prejudice to the rules on competition, in the establishment of justified exceptions or other advantages. thirdly, the single system must be designed and operated in such a way as to be able to prevent vat fraudsters operating in the eu.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the european union needs to develop and operate effectively a simpler, more stable and more efficient vat system, which benefits citizens, businesses and member states. vat plays an important role in ensuring economic stability and growth, which requires the prevention of vat fraud, the reduction of the bureaucratic burden on taxpayers and administrators, and the removal of obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market. i believe that in the current economic situation it would also be appropriate to apply a lower vat rate to energy-saving and environmentally friendly products and services. it is also essential to ensure that member states agree by the beginning of the following year on a common list of goods and services which should be exempt from vat or subject to a reduced rate of vat and that the commission reports on that list by the end of 2013.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib), whose shareholders are the member states, is one of the eu's most important financial instruments. its loans outside the eu (eur 9 billion) accounted for more than 12% of its total loans in 2010. the european union shall provide a budgetary guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) covering certain risks of a public or political nature relating to eib lending and loan guarantee operations outside the eu in support of eu external policy objectives. this proposal aims to ensure the continuity of the eu guarantee for eib external financing for the remainder of the current financial perspective 2007-2013, while providing for new elements of delegation. these new elements will allow for increased eib intervention in sectors that will promote the development of third countries, such as environmental infrastructure, including water and sanitation, and sustainable transport, as well as climate change mitigation.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document as, based on the findings of the mid-term review, the overall objective is to ensure the continuity of the eu guarantee for eib external financing for the remainder of the current financial perspective 2007-13 and at the same time to provide for new elements of delegation. the eib is a non-profit-making, public bank implementing eu policies, investing only in projects that deliver eu policy objectives. the eib provides financial support to the eu's external cooperation and development policy objectives, such as private sector development, infrastructure development, reliable energy supply and a sustainable environment. i believe these are important areas that require continuity of funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which would grant the european investment bank an eu guarantee for external lending for the period 2007-13. in particular, given the bank's importance in the implementation of eu policy objectives, it is essential to ensure the continuity of the eu guarantee in the eib's external financing. in providing the necessary political and financial support to countries and projects, i believe that greater attention should be paid to those sectors which promote the development of third countries. it is also necessary to strengthen the eib's capacity to support the eu's development objectives and to step up its activities in the fields of health and education.
in writing. − the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) was established in 1990 to support the development of market economies in the countries of central europe and central asia following the collapse of large-scale communist regimes. the european union, together with the european investment bank (eib) and 40 countries (including all the then eu member states), were founding members. the european bank for reconstruction and development is currently managed by 61 countries, the eu and the eib. the eib supports projects in 29 countries, mainly in the private sector, that cannot be financed by the market. the bank promotes entrepreneurship and fosters the transition to an open and democratic market economy. i have endorsed this proposal, which proposes to allow the eu to subscribe for additional early redemption shares in the erpb and thus increase the authorised capital accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the purpose of the proposed legislation is to allow the european union to subscribe for additional early redemption shares in the escb in an amount proportional to the current share of the union in the capital (3,031%). in may 2010, the board of governors of the eib decided to increase the bank's capital by 50% from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion in order to respond to the financial crisis and to step up its support to the countries in which the bank conducts its operations. the capital increase is eur 1 billion in newly paid-in capital and eur 9 billion in new early redemption capital. the proposal aims at creating new paid-in capital by converting accumulated distributed reserves into equity capital. the operation will therefore have no direct impact on the eu budget. the risk arises from the possible need to pay additional capital in the event of a significant negative development in the bank's investment portfolio, although this is unlikely. after the increase, the eu's share in the capital of the erpb will remain at 3,031%, the paid-up share will increase from eur 157,50 million to eur 187,81 million and the pre-emption capital from eur 442,5 million to eur 712,63 million.
in writing. − i support this resolution as it is appropriate to authorise the european union to subscribe for additional early redemption shares in the escb in an amount proportionate to the current share of the union's capital. it is noted that the eu's participation in the capital of the esrb is an effective way to contribute to the achievement of the eu's objectives and to help mitigate the impact of the crisis in the countries in which the esrb operates and to maintain a high level of activity in the esrb. it should be noted that this operation will not have an immediate impact on the eu budget, as it aims to create new paid-in capital by converting the accumulated distributable reserves into share capital. moreover, the subscription of this capital should not lead to any actual cash payments from the eu budget, unless very large and unforeseen losses are incurred. i believe that there is no reason to doubt the financial sustainability of the bank, as the escb has a long track record of success, a prudent borrowing policy and good financial performance.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, lithuania and the erdf are closely linked by a close cooperation. according to the ebrd, our cooperation covers 78 projects with a total value of eur 1.8 billion and a net turnover of eur 590.6 million. i consider that i am asking the eu to sign the decision on these additional shares in the capital of the eib. in particular, it is understood that this will have no direct impact on the eu budget. the purpose of the proposed legislation is to allow the eu to subscribe for additional early redemption shares in the erdf countries in proportion to the current eu capital shares. this decision would allow the eib to expand its activities in the countries where it operates, including lithuania, thus providing valuable support to the economies of countries with limited capital at the time. although the activities of the ebrd have decreased since lithuania became a member of the eu, it continues to play an important role in our country. for example, the ebs may encourage commercial banks to continue lending to businesses, especially smes. more importantly, the erdf can help strengthen corporate governance in lithuania's local enterprises, promote investment in renewable energy and support the development of electricity connections.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the regulation which transposes into eu law the implementation of article 10 of the united nations protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition (unfp). this protocol, which supplements the un convention against transnational organized crime, is the first binding instrument relating to small arms adopted at global level. the proposed regulation introduces an ‘export procedure’ to be applied by member states to exports to third countries. the adoption of the regulation under the usual legislative procedure enables article 10 of the unfp to be applied in all the member states, which finally establishes a uniform system for trade in firearms. we, members of the european parliament, support this regulation, which encourages more transparency, helping to combat illegal trafficking in firearms by encouraging and strengthening cooperation amongst states, an objective which has grown in importance since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009.
in writing. − the stockholm programme on 'clear and safe europe for the benefit and security of its citizens' underlines that arms trafficking is one of the illicit activities that continues to pose a challenge to the eu's internal security and that the union must therefore continue to promote the ratification of international conventions (and their protocols), in particular those drawn up with the support of the united nations. i have endorsed this proposal as the union needs to take concrete action to complete the transposition into union law of the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organised crime (unfccc) ('unfccc firearms protocol').
in writing. − i voted in favour of the regulation as it proposes an export procedure that member states could apply to exports to third countries. the adoption of the regulation would allow the application of article 10 of the unfpa (un firearms protocol) in all member states, thus finally establishing a uniform system for the trade in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition in the european union. this offer is limited to non-automatic weapons, their parts and ammunition for civilian (non-military) use and to trade or transport to third countries, including countries that are not signatories to the un firearms protocol, as appropriate.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the proposed regulation will close the gap in the eu's exclusive competence in the area of the common commercial policy by harmonising and simplifying the procedures for the trade in arms with third countries in all eu member states. since, 10 years after the adoption of the un firearms protocol (unfp) by the un general assembly, the application of its provisions in the member states is highly uneven (the protocol has been ratified by 13 eu member states, signed by 9 and not joined by 5, including major arms exporters), this transposition of article 10 of the unfp into eu law will allow for the creation of a single eu system for the trade in small arms with third countries. the regulation does not seek to impose an additional financial burden on businesses (providing for appropriate simplifications of procedures), but encourages cross-border cooperation and strengthens the fight against the illicit trade in arms. i also welcome the rapporteur's initiative to include a reference to article 2 (2) of the council framework decision on the european arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because a uniform, effectively functioning system of trade and export authorisations for firearms, their parts, components and ammunition must be established within the european union and import and transit measures must be introduced to prevent the illicit trade in firearms and to strengthen cooperation between states. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the proposed export procedure to exports to third countries. in order to speed up administrative and bureaucratic procedures and to enable exporters to plan their activities more efficiently, i believe it appropriate to reduce the maximum period allowed for examining the issue of an export authorisation. i also support the proposal to extend the period of validity of export licences for multiple shipments, as this extension reduces the administrative burden for member states and exporters who carry out shipments on a regular basis and for a long period of time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union’s stabilisation and association process. the european union has granted unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the key aim of these measures is to revitalise the western balkan economies through a privileged access to the eu market. in turn, economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region. the termination of the trade preferences would take from the beneficiaries an objective economic advantage in their trade with the eu. this could have negative consequences on the overall economic performances for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union’s stabilisation and association process; their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised. as such i support this proposal which aims to amend some elements of this regulation in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 december 2015.
in writing. − by regulation (ec) no 2007/20001, the european union has allowed duty-free entry on the eu market of almost all goods originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process, in exceptional and unlimited quantities. the main objective of these measures is to stimulate the economies of the western balkan countries by facilitating their access to the eu market. economic development is also promoted by political stability throughout the region. these trade preferences are granted for a period ending on 31 december 2010 and are currently applicable to all products originating in bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo. the cessation of trade preferences would result in the beneficiaries losing objective economic advantages in trade with the eu. this could have a very significant negative impact on the overall economic performance of the western balkans and adversely affect the internal reform and transition processes in that region. in addition, it could be a major obstacle to the recovery of the western balkans economy. i have endorsed this proposal to extend the provisions of the regulation until 31 december 2015.
in writing. − the regulation enabled the european union to grant duty-free access to the eu market to virtually all goods originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process, in exceptionally unlimited quantities. the main objective of these measures is to stimulate the economies of the western balkan countries by facilitating their access to the eu market. in turn, economic development is promoted by political stability throughout the region. i have endorsed this document as amending certain provisions of the regulation with a view to extending its validity until 31 december 2015 and making certain amendments which have become necessary following the entry into force of the bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. − the eu has given the balkan countries a clear membership perspective and is actively promoting internal reforms in these countries through the stabilisation and association agreements, as the largest donor in the region, helping to gradually establish a free trade area between the eu and the balkan countries. the autonomous trade preferences have been in place since 2000, were renewed in 2007 and allow almost all goods produced in these countries to be exported to the eu without customs duties in unlimited quantities until the beginning of 2011. the eu is thus currently the largest trading partner of the balkan countries. trade is one of the main instruments for promoting development. a sudden end to trade preferences, especially now in the context of the economic crisis, would be a severe blow for the eu, not only to the economies of the balkan countries, but also to the political stability of the region. on the other hand, the commission is given sufficient leverage to take restrictive measures in the event of serious market distortions in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. i therefore voted in favour of extending the concessions until the end of 2015, with the necessary modifications.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to revive the economies of the western balkan countries by extending trade preferences and further facilitating their access to the eu market. it should be noted that economic development is of great importance as it promotes political stability throughout the region. in the meantime, the withdrawal of trade preferences would have a very significant negative impact on the western balkan economy, internal reforms and transition processes. moreover, the beneficiaries would lose objective economic advantages in trade with the eu. given the very sensitive and vulnerable nature of agricultural and fisheries markets, i support the proposal to empower the commission to adopt appropriate measures by means of delegated acts to protect the european union's markets and regulatory mechanisms in cases where their functioning is seriously disturbed by imports of agricultural and fisheries products.
in writing. − the forthcoming european council is very important and must decide the final course of action. the focus will be on the economic policy guidelines, strengthening europe's global competitiveness, the eu's position on the g20 and the eu's final position on the climate change conference. i support the proposals in the resolution that the president of the commission should present a comprehensive strategy on economic governance, including elements such as the recapitalisation of european banks, the resolution of the european financial stability facility (efsf) and the european stability mechanism (esm) at community level and the evaluation of existing and planned measures, a plan for a meaningful european growth, investment and jobs agenda, proposals to complete the review of the financial markets regulation and ensure that the eu economy can be better managed in the event of a future crisis.
in writing. - i have endorsed this document because the forthcoming european council is of great importance and must be the final and decisive decision on the future path to be taken. i consider that the following key aspects of the meeting are of great importance: the eu plan for the recapitalisation of european banks; the resolution of the european financial stability facility (efsf) and the european stability mechanism (esm) at community level and the assessment of existing and planned measures in terms of whether these measures will be sufficient to control the sovereign debt crisis; a meaningful european plan for growth, investment and job creation, including project bonds; the efforts of member states to coordinate and harmonise elements of their tax systems, including measures to combat tax fraud, tax avoidance and evasion; the need to complete the revision of the financial markets regulation and ensure that the eu economy is more resilient in the event of a future crisis. the report on solidarity is also important for the preparation of a common european system for the issuance of government bonds (european securities) by the end of 2011. these european securities would help to ensure greater fiscal discipline and stability in euro area market participation, and would also ensure that higher-credit-rated member states are not affected by higher interest rates by taking advantage of increased liquidity.
in writing. - the forthcoming european council is of paramount importance in these difficult economic times. the issues that will be discussed and the decisions that will be taken during the session will affect the future of all the member states of the european union. but it is also important in the context of the future of the eu as a whole, since it is at this meeting that eu leaders will face the difficult test of adopting economic rescue measures on the basis of the community method. this will mean, in particular, the primacy of the european interest over the national interest and the solidarity of the eu and its member states.
in writing. − the european council is of unquestionable importance, since it will be the final and decisive decision on the way forward. given the importance of this meeting, i believe that economic policy should be given special attention. in this context, the president of the commission must present a detailed plan at the meeting, including a clear strategy listing the individual stages of its implementation. in particular, the eu plan for the recapitalisation of european banks, which would allow for an operational response to recapitalise the euro area lenders affected by the credit crisis and organise new phases of financial assistance, needs to be discussed in detail. another important topic for discussion at the meeting was the european plan for growth, investment and jobs, which also needs to include project bonds. it is also necessary to consider ways of improving the efforts of member states to coordinate and harmonise the elements of their tax systems, including measures to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. in order to make the eu economy more resilient in the event of a future crisis, it is necessary to consider the proposals as soon as possible and to complete the review of the financial markets regulation. in addition, particular attention shall be paid to the report on the development of the european system of state bonds.
in writing. − i support the resolution on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area, as they have fulfilled all the criteria set out in the schengen evaluation process. both countries have redesigned and reorganised their integrated border management systems through a substantial investment in their law enforcement authorities. bulgaria and romania have continuously proved their support and solidarity and sustained commitment to be reliable partners in south-eastern europe, through a consistent contribution to border security in these parts of the eu. it is of grave importance that we do not impose any additional criteria on member states that are already in the process of joining the schengen area and that we include bulgaria and romania solely on the basis of the schengen acquis and procedures. it is now up to the member states to honour their commitments under the eu legal framework as regards the schengen accession criteria and not give the priority to national populism, and accordingly uphold the fundamental right of the free movement of persons guaranteed to eu citizens by the treaties.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the creation of the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the european integration process, which enshrines a fundamental right of eu citizens, namely the free movement of persons. the european parliament in its resolution of 8 june 2011 and the council in its conclusions of 9 june 2011 confirmed that romania and bulgaria fulfil all the criteria of the schengen acquis assessment process for a successful accession to the area. i support the call in the resolution for all member states to take the decision to extend the schengen area and to accept bulgaria and romania in accordance with the schengen acquis and procedures alone, as no additional criteria can be provided for member states that have already started the process of accession to the schengen area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because i believe that the free movement of persons is a fundamental right of eu citizens enshrined in the treaties. the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis into the eu system are among the major achievements of the european integration process. romania and bulgaria fulfil all the criteria of the schengen acquis assessment process in order to successfully join the area. both countries have substantially restructured and reorganised their integrated border management systems and have significantly strengthened their institutional and legal systems through significant investment in their law enforcement institutions, as well as through training and the provision of state-of-the-art technology, and this is recognised in all schengen evaluation reports. there is some doubt that romania and bulgaria have failed to adopt all the provisions of the schengen acquis on the fight against corruption and organised crime, and that bulgaria has not adopted measures to help manage the expected increase in migrant flows at the borders with greece and turkey. however, i do not think that additional criteria can be provided for member states which have already started the process of joining the schengen area. the schengen area should therefore be extended to include bulgaria and romania, and the european council should act in accordance with the eu treaty and take all necessary measures to allow romania and bulgaria to join that area.
in writing. − it is worth noting that the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis into the eu system are among the greatest achievements of the european integration process. it is clearly an ideal expression of the free movement of persons. it should be noted that joining the schengen area is not easy, as the legal criteria of the schengen system are very strict. each member state wishing to join the schengen area must be adequately prepared to secure all the eu's external borders and to issue visas valid throughout the schengen area, as well as to ensure data protection and effective police cooperation. in order to strengthen the protection of the eu's external borders and the security of all eu citizens, the obligations laid down in the eu legal framework in relation to the criteria for accession to the schengen area must therefore apply equally to all member states, with the exception of bulgaria and romania.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, over the past few months we have seen how economic imbalances are threatening the survival of the euro in the euro area. at the same time, another major eu project - the visa-free schengen regime - was threatened. for most lithuanians, freedom of movement is an essential aspect of the european project and has been one of the greatest privileges of our eu membership. this privilege was not granted to the citizens of bulgaria and romania and i regret that no agreement was concluded on the extension of the schengen area to these countries. both parties have implemented sis and have ensured its full functioning. concerns about emigration are understandable, especially with rising unemployment. however, the lack of unity and solidarity among eu governments on this issue is a cause for concern. the credibility of the eu is once again at stake. the issue of opening borders should not distract us from the lack of opportunities in some member states. like young lithuanians, young romanians and bulgarians are more likely to think that their best opportunities lie abroad. i want to emphasise my full and strong support for bulgaria and romania and for the eu's policy of solidarity, unity and non-discrimination towards its member countries.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating you and the rapporteur, mr kósa, on your report on the mobility and integration of disabled people and the european disability strategy 2010-2020. in this report, the european parliament once again demonstrates its longstanding commitment to making equality and inclusion a reality for the some 80 million disabled people living in europe. disability issues have entered the field of law and legislation. on 22 january, for the first time in its history, the european union became a party to an international human rights treaty. this is the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has entered into force in the european union. this key step for the rights of disabled people was achieved thanks to the unwavering support of the european parliament throughout the complex procedure leading to the conclusion of the convention. your legislative resolution of april 2009 sent a strong political message in this regard and helped pave the way for a unanimous agreement of member states in the council. the commission is committed to making the rights enshrined in the convention a reality, in cooperation with the council and parliament. as regards the european disability strategy, i want to assure you that the emphasis today on a human rights-based approach and citizen-centred disability policies is far from a semantic shift. it is based on very concrete actions, as also detailed in the european disability strategy. the overall objective of this strategy is that persons with disabilities should be able to exercise all their rights and participate fully in all aspects of social and economic life, as individuals, consumers, students, workers and political actors. our strategy focuses first on removing obstacles. it provides the means to implement the un convention at union level by adopting an ambitious programme of action. although aspects of everyday life such as education, health care and employment are primarily the responsibility of the member states, we are convinced that action by the european union is necessary to support and complement efforts at national level. we will use the europe 2020 strategy and its instruments to encourage the full economic and social participation of people with disabilities. this approach to inclusion will ensure that no action excludes disabled people. rest assured that we will be following very closely the measures taken by the member states to improve the employment situation of these people. we will learn from the reports on the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy submitted as part of the annual national reform programmes; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reform programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i am pleased to announce that the commission will be placing the conference organized on the occasion of the european day of persons with disabilities under the heading of 'out of the crisis'. the conference will focus in particular on the contribution of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy and on union financing for inclusive growth. as regards the european legislative act on accessibility, the council in june expressed broad support for the european disability strategy and invited the commission to review the framework currently in place to ensure accessibility. this theme is at the heart of the strategy and the adoption of a european legislative act on accessibility is one of the priority actions decided in this area. accessibility means enabling all persons with disabilities to enjoy the same access facilities as everyone else, whether in their physical environment, access to transport, information and communication. accessibility is an essential prerequisite for the exercise of the right recognised by the treaty on european union, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the united nations convention. studies and complaints from citizens indicate that there is still insufficient accessibility to goods and services in the european market. moreover, accessible goods and services are often expensive, a situation which clearly arises from the fact that this is a small market where competition is still limited. these gaps constitute barriers to the participation of people with disabilities in the economic, social and political life of our society. with the ageing of the population, a potential market is clearly emerging for products and services with a high degree of accessibility. companies often seem to ignore the economic potential of people with disabilities in terms of consumption. many member states have undertaken to improve accessibility by developing national guidelines and standards to comply with the obligations of the un convention. however, if we are content to provide purely national responses to the problem of lack of accessibility, the 27 member states will each find themselves with different laws, regulations, standards and technical requirements, ultimately resulting in a fragmented market with very little competition. we believe that a european market for accessible goods and services would be much more attractive to businesses. the adoption of a european legislative act on accessibility should aim to foster economies of scale for accessible goods and services, to address market gaps and to increase competition. the european commission plans to present a proposal for a european legislative act on accessibility in the autumn of 2012. the many issues relating to this initiative, its content, scope and legal form are currently being considered. the preparation process has indeed begun and will be supported by a substantial impact assessment. we would like to hear from all the stakeholders concerned, but of course, and above all, from people with disabilities and the organisations that represent them. we are naturally also keenly interested in the views of businesses, service providers and public authorities in the member states. we also hope that you will be willing to take part in this process and we invite you to give us your impressions on this subject for the proper preparation of these legislative acts.
on behalf of the s&d group i thank the rapporteur for the joint work and for the report which focuses on increasing the mobility of disabled people by removing physical and social barriers to disabled people using public buildings, public services. i would like to point out that in the committee on employment and social affairs we decided to call on the member states to adopt the proposal for an anti-discrimination directive as soon as possible. the s&d group calls for the compromise agreed to be upheld and for the european union member states, the presidency, the commission to work as much as possible on the long-overdue anti-discrimination directive and to look for possible solutions to move this directive from its deadlock to its adoption and entry into force throughout the european union as soon as possible, as this would actually improve the situation of people with disabilities in a very real way. secondly, although the report deals with the employment of disabled people, more attention needs to be paid to ensuring access to education and vocational training at all levels, and to providing the necessary support for disabled people in the workplace. i would like to emphasise that the main obstacles to the integration of disabled people into society are high unemployment rates, and disabled unemployment is caused by a lack of preparation for the labour market. many schools and vocational training institutions do not have specialised curricula adapted to the needs of disabled children and young people, and the training institutions are not adapted to the needs of disabled children and young people. thus, the educational system still fails to address children and young people with disabilities, and the absence of schooling leads to high social and employment barriers for disabled people and the resulting poverty, especially in the current economic crisis. the member states, the commission and the european parliament must therefore work together to make real, not just words, but actions that change the lives of people with disabilities and their families. and i regret very much that i do not see the chairman of the committee in the chamber today.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. more than 80 million people, or about 16% of the eu's total population, are disabled. the eu's legal acts are designed to ensure equal rights for all eu citizens, including people with disabilities. and among these are the inalienable rights to dignity, to equal treatment, to independent living and to full participation in society. the ep has repeatedly expressed its support for improving the lives of people with disabilities. the parliament, which is elected by eu citizens under the treaties, plays an important role in representing the public interest. the ep has therefore a duty to continue to support people with disabilities in their fight for a decent life and to guarantee them greater rights. this should be done through the full inclusion of people with disabilities in society. promoting the employment of disabled people, enabling them to exercise their voting rights by removing administrative, legal or technical barriers, harmonising the rules for disabled people's use of public transport and facilitating access to education at all levels of education should be our priorities. most importantly, the ep must ensure that the needs of people with disabilities are taken into account in the eu 2020 strategy, its flagship initiatives and development programmes, with particular attention to the needs of people with disabilities in central and eastern european countries where a system of care for people with disabilities has been neglected or has been largely non-existent for decades.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, public procurement is undoubtedly one of the most important factors determining the competitive functioning of the single market. billions of euros are spent each year on public works and services, and this raises the need to revise the current public procurement rules to reflect the main objective of public procurement policy, which is to meet the needs of citizens while ensuring the efficient use of public funds. in my many speeches on this subject, i have stressed the need to develop a public procurement system based on common principles at eu level and to move towards a more efficient electronic procurement system. this would allow the human factor, which makes the current public procurement system inefficient, opaque, complex and inflexible, to be eliminated at certain stages. i believe that the establishment and implementation of common principles at eu level would open up much greater opportunities to purchase works, goods or services at significantly lower prices, leading to a more transparent, clearer and more efficient public procurement system.
youth unemployment is 30 to 40 per cent in some member states and in some places almost half of young people are out of work. this is a huge problem. what do we have to do, and what can we do, at european union and national level to change this? i believe that, in particular, the preparation and implementation of national employment programmes should pay particular attention to youth problems and provide for measures to encourage young people to be employed without reducing their employment and social guarantees. improve labour market research and forecasting to identify professions with a shortage of workers and to inform young people preparing for studies as widely as possible. increase the involvement of young people in educational studies and retraining programmes, promote entrepreneurship among young people through a variety of measures ranging from teaching the basics of business in secondary schools to applying tax incentives to start-ups, and increase the awareness of young people about european union programmes in this field. the arrangements for the completion of traineeships should be regulated in more detail.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ungureanu, for this important report, which reflects the main idea that we must promote the mobility of workers - one of the fundamental values of the european union - but we must do so responsibly. in other words, we need to promote value, not just any movement of workers. in encouraging people to move, we must ensure that their rights as workers are not violated and that they are not exploited in a foreign country. for these reasons, it is essential that law enforcement and labour inspectorates in different countries cooperate more closely. we need to ensure that people who go to work in other countries are not forced to squander their education, skills and work experience on lower-skilled jobs. this requires further strengthening of the recognition of professional qualifications in the european union. it is also necessary to assess the situation in countries where migration rates are very high for economic and social reasons and where many highly educated skilled workers leave. such mass emigration could have a huge economic and social cost for these countries in the future. i would therefore like to call again on the european commission and the member of the commission here and on the member states to look for solutions to this problem now.
in writing. the current demographic situation in europe is very complex, with declining birth rates in almost all member states, and we need to take measures to give mothers the best possible opportunity to raise their children and to have a real chance of returning to the labour market. it is also essential to ensure that women can achieve the best possible balance between work and family life. i would like to stress that we cannot discriminate against pregnant women or new mothers in the labour market simply because of their biological role in becoming mothers. we must protect the career prospects of mothers and not create any obstacles to their return to their workplace. improvements to the revised directive would improve the protection of mothers' rights, help ensure good working conditions and allow more time to be invested in family life. it is indeed regrettable that the council still lacks a common position on this important directive and that negotiations between member states have continued for so long without any positive progress. i therefore strongly hope that the member states, and in particular the presidency, will continue negotiations as soon as possible and make every effort to find a common solution so that this directive can move from the deadlock as quickly as possible. the crisis in this area should not lead to delayed decisions and savings, since the future of the european union depends on it.
mr president, i would like to move the following oral amendment to paragraph 7: ‘calls on the member states to remove obstacles to workers’ mobility by offering persons (the majority of whom are women) who follow their spouses or partners to another member state, appropriate services such as courses to facilitate their integration into their new social and cultural environment, for example language courses and vocational courses’.
last year, the european disability strategy was adopted. accessibility and health are among the priority areas of action envisaged in this strategy. we are constantly adopting new measures to make common infrastructure more accessible to people with disabilities. unfortunately, the pace of action taken by member states to improve infrastructure is still too slow to ensure adequate integration of people with disabilities into the labour market and access to the healthcare services they need. in particular, member states should therefore step up their efforts to ensure that, in the approval and implementation of various infrastructure projects, the infrastructure facilities under construction, whether new or being renovated, whether privately or publicly owned, are also accessible to persons with disabilities.
the modernisation and harmonisation of the existing public procurement system at european union level is an integral part of the proper future of the european union. the challenges for modernisation proposed by the commission are: a path towards greater transparency and administrative clarity; both the opportunities for small businesses and the improvement of efficiency, savings and time in procurement itself. it is also a pathway to the environment and to greater use of energy-saving measures. i welcome this comprehensive approach and i urge the member states to apply modern procurement principles now, before the end of the reform, as they prepare to implement the changes proposed by the commission.
the proper functioning of the free movement of workers as one of the fundamental principles of the european union has unfortunately had a negative impact on the demographic situation of some economically weaker member states, such as lithuania. however, while respecting this principle and the rights of our own citizens who have chosen to benefit from it, we must ensure that workers from any member state are not discriminated against in the european union. in some member states, disproportionate and often discriminatory barriers to entry for migrant workers remain, both in terms of access to the labour market and in terms of access to social guarantees for them and their family members. i am convinced that a citizen of the european union who has chosen to work in a member state other than his own must be treated equally in all eu member states. the commission and the member states therefore have a long way to go before this equality is truly achieved.
in writing. - i voted yes. the eeas has been in operation for less than a year and it is understandable that unforeseen circumstances may arise which would require a budget adjustment. in the light of the criticism in the press of the 'harsh working conditions' of the eeas, i believe that the european parliament, which has actively supported the idea and establishment of the eeas, should support it at this stage, given that the proposed changes to the establishment plan will not require additional expenditure but will allow the commitment to reach at least 1/3 of the ad staff from the member states at a given time to be fulfilled. as regards the budgetary adjustment requested by the edps, it is rather strange that the european parliament should have to decide on the creation of a higher category of post to promote a specific person. i think that the solution proposed by the rapporteur is appropriate at this stage. i trust that the commission and the relevant authorities will respond to all the questions raised in this case.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, by which the european parliament gives its consent to the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2009 and to the closure of the accounts of the college for the financial year 2009. according to the information provided to the european parliament, following the decision of the parliament of 10 may 2011 to postpone its decision on the discharge for the 2009 budget of the college, it is to be welcomed that the new administration and management of the college, in response to the call of the parliament to take action on serious irregularities in the implementation of the 2009 budget, have taken measures to address the deficiencies. since 2010, the college has strengthened its financial discipline and internal controls. the college has drawn up and implemented its own internal procurement manual as requested by parliament in previous discharge procedures. the college also established an organisational risk register as part of its ongoing budget management to reduce the risk of under-spending. the court of auditors, in its report on the college's multiannual action plan 2010-2014, confirmed that the college is making progress towards the objectives set out in this plan.
in writing. − by decision of 10 may 2011, the parliament decided to postpone its decision to grant the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2009. the new administration and management of the college, responding to the call for action by the parliament following the serious irregularities in the implementation of the 2009 budget, took measures to correct these deficiencies. the action was taken in time to respond to parliament's calls. i therefore voted in favour of closing the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, by which the european parliament gives its consent to the execution of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009 and to the closure of the accounts of the agency for the financial year 2009. on the basis of the information provided to the european parliament, the fact that the agency has taken action to address the serious deficiencies identified in the 2009 reports of the court of auditors and the internal audit service regarding the agency's activities, which led the parliament to decide on 10 may 2011 to postpone its decision on discharge in respect of the agency's 2009 budget, is to be welcomed. in the second half of 2011, the agency submitted a report to parliament on the implementation of the internal audit service's recommendations, which stated that a significant proportion of the 'very important' recommendations on the agency's human resource management, administrative selection procedures and internal control standards had already been implemented or were in the process of being implemented. the agency also started to develop an action plan for improving public procurement procedures. the agency also corrected shortcomings in the selection of contractors identified by the internal audit service. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament must continue to monitor closely the implementation of the measures taken to address the serious shortcomings in the agency's activities.
in writing. − in its decision of 10 may 2011, the parliament decided to postpone its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the ep received the agency's replies following the abovementioned decision and provided an update on the level of implementation of the internal audit service's recommendations, which improves on the information provided. i believe that the agency should continue to inform the discharge authority of the outcome of the actions requested by the discharge authority. i supported the european parliament's position to grant discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the existing directives of the european parliament and of the council on tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and their fitting contain a number of minor errors in the wording. the main errors are in the second and fifth annexes. in the english translation of annex ii, the number '330' should have been replaced by '305' and several acronyms should have been included. the fifth annex contained a number of errors in the marking of expressions, which should have been marked with compatible characters. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that the proposed adjustments do not alter the substance of the existing text in any way, but only make it more precise and clearer. i think it is important to take account of such errors, because even one word or number can make a huge difference and add a lot of extra stress to the subjects of the legislation.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance. in this way, the provisions of the directive will be clearer and more transparent and accessible to citizens. it should be noted that the general requirements laid down in the rules applicable to tyres should relate not only to their characteristics but also to their assembly and be adapted to the development of scientific and technical knowledge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on alternative dispute resolution (adr) in civil, commercial and family matters. i welcome the recent commission consultation on adr. compared to courts, adr schemes are cheaper, quicker and less formal, offering practical solutions. as adr forms part of a general ‘justice-for-growth’ agenda across sectors, we, members of the european parliament, believe that any approach to adr should go beyond consumer disputes so as to include disputes about business-to-business, civil and commercial transactions, irrespective of whether they are carried out between private or public undertakings, as well as family disputes and cases of defamation or cases involving parties whose legal status differs. moreover, on-line shopping is increasing and adr could play a more relevant role here because the scope for judicial action is sometimes limited when dealing with new technologies. parliament stresses the need to ensure that european consumers can access adr systems for transnational as well as national disputes, especially in the on-line market, which is growing rapidly in the eu. i support the rapporteur’s position that the use of adr systems affords a higher level of protection of consumer rights, while also promoting cross-border trade and increased prosperity for all operators in the eu market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because the legal procedures in cases of this kind are more complex, more expensive and more time-consuming. i believe that legal measures adopted at european union level will help to promote the use of alternative dispute resolution (adr) and encourage more individuals and legal entities to use them, especially in cross-border disputes. the commission is therefore invited to submit a legislative proposal on the application of the ags in the eu by the end of 2011 and the importance of its swift adoption is underlined. i am convinced that there is a need to promote the use of adr methods: they are easily accessible, easy to use, effective and inexpensive, and they can be used to establish and maintain commercial, economic, social and neighbourly relations based on quality and trust and contribute to a high level of consumer protection on mutually favourable terms, which, unlike the current case law, are mutually beneficial. the commission, on the basis of the data collected and a serious impact assessment and in line with better regulation, should explore the possibility of setting minimum standards for adr across sectors, while developing existing systems and encouraging member states and sectors eligible for the systems to increase funding, bearing in mind that adr, while being a low-cost alternative for the parties, must not become 'cheap justice'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it is necessary to extend the scope of the alternative dispute resolution (adr) methods. in particular, this approach must be applied to civil, commercial and family matters. in this context, i support the proposal to call on the commission to present a proposal by the end of this year on the application of ags in the eu and to set at least minimum ags standards in different sectors. it should be noted that the ags must be applied as a flexible, efficient and at the same time fair enough method of dispute resolution, and that the implementation of this method in the various sectors must be adequately financed so that such dispute resolution does not become 'expensive justice'.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's position not to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009, as there are a number of outstanding issues. discharge was postponed as parliament did not receive any answers to the many outstanding questions, i.e. the council administration did not accept the invitation to meet the parliament's committee responsible for the discharge procedure to discuss issues relating to the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009. parliament did not receive the information and documents requested from the council administration, the main elements of the council's discharge procedure. i am convinced and agree that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of the other institutions and that the main elements of the scrutinisation should be: an official meeting of the council and the representatives of the parliament's committee on budgetary control, possibly closed, in order to answer questions from members of the committee; as also provided for in the council resolution of 16 june 2010 on the discharge procedure for the 2008 budget, discharge should be based on the following written documents submitted by all the institutions, namely the reports on the implementation of the budget for the previous financial year; the financial statement of assets and liabilities; the annual activity report on budgetary and financial management; the annual internal auditor's report.
in writing. − the proposal aims to amend directive 2000/25/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2000 on action to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from engines for agricultural or forestry tractors. the provisions of this directive aim to ensure the free movement of agricultural and forestry tractors while reducing the emission limit values of engines in order to protect the health and well-being of citizens and the environment. the directive sets emission limit values which are gradually reduced. the independent experts and interested parties agree that the limit values for the types of agricultural tractors referred to in the proposed amendment are technically not feasible. therefore, if the entry into force were not postponed, the functioning of the internal market and the agricultural sector using those tractors would be completely disrupted. i have agreed to the commission's proposal to postpone the application of the requirements for the category of tractors concerned for three years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because one of the main sources of air pollution is transport and its emissions. the emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter are set and will be regulated in the future by several directives (entering into force on 1 january 2012 and 1 january 2014 respectively). the emissions control directives apply to engines for farm tractors in order to limit their emissions. one of the biggest problems at the moment is that if tractor manufacturers equipped engines with an exhaust system, they would not be able to ensure that the vehicles meet the operational requirements related to their size and manoeuvrability. this document therefore calls for narrow gauge tractors to be either excluded from the scope of the new directives altogether or to be deferred for five years. the introduction of an exemption would be a better solution, as the directive on the limitation of transport pollution, which is coming into force, would help to reduce air pollution and noise.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this document because this proposal to amend directive 2000/25/ec would postpone the t2, c2 and t4 obligations for three years. for tractors of category 1, the requirements of stages iiib and iv shall be met. this directive concerns positive ignition engines intended for agricultural and forestry tractors. this directive lays down limit values for the emission of pollutants carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from engines. the directive sets progressively lower thresholds for the adjustment of the maximum emission of gases and particulate matter for subsequent phases corresponding to different dates. the strict requirements for stages iii and iv include the installation of the exhaust treatment systems in the engine compartment compared to the engine itself, which takes up a lot of space. furthermore, the possibility of installing such systems is severely limited by the operational requirements of the engine. narrow-track tractors use the same type of engines as other tractors, but there is one key difference: the small engine compartment and the limited space around it. tractor manufacturers cannot equip engines with exhaust treatment systems and at the same time ensure that vehicles meet the performance requirements in terms of size and manoeuvrability of the most important design aspects of these vehicles. it should be noted that this was the conclusion of various studies commissioned by the commission, which recommended that narrow gauge tractors be exempted from the requirements of stages iiib and iv altogether or that this requirement be deferred for at least five years.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because i believe that it is appropriate to impose strict requirements for the installation of exhaust systems in the engine compartment of narrow-track tractors. in particular, in order to ensure a high level of environmental protection and the well-being of european citizens, we need to set requirements that encourage the reduction of emissions from engines fitted to agricultural and forestry tractors. it should be noted that narrow-track tractors currently in use cause a lot of pollution and a threat to the safety of workers. in view of this, the industry sector should seek to replace old, polluting tractors with modern, low-emission technologies as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the need to limit emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from vehicles. the current emissions directive and the procedures it lays down will be tightened up from 2012 (with a transitional period until 2013). these restrictions will apply to approximately 1500 companies in the european union, and the installations covered include a wide range of ground installations for purposes such as construction, forestry and agriculture. the objective of this directive is to reduce emissions from vehicles with very high emission levels. this directive would also make it possible to combat unfair competition with third country producers whose production process is not yet subject to such strict restrictions.
in writing. − directive 97/68/ec regulates the maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from diesel engines for non-road mobile machinery. the 2004 revision of directive 2004/26/ec established the current stage iii a thresholds and the dates and thresholds for the subsequent stage iii b. these stricter values will be phased in from january 2011 depending on the power category. the installations covered by this directive include a wide range of ground-based installations for purposes such as construction, forestry and agriculture. the directive also applies to locomotives, motor vehicles and inland waterway vessels. the directive covers a wide range of equipment manufacturers (around 1500 companies), most of which do not produce the engines used in this installation. the engines are produced by only a few large companies. i believe that the crisis will make it impossible for companies to meet the requirements, so it is proposed to allow the production of engines until 2014 with an increase in the flexibility percentage, i.e. the commission proposes to increase the current 20% to 50%. i have agreed to these proposed flexibility measures, which will be valid until 13 december 2013.
in writing. − i support this resolution as it is appropriate to extend the scope of the flexibility scheme. the global financial and economic crisis has, after all, had a severe impact on most industrial companies. in this context, it will be particularly difficult for companies to implement the requirements of the directive that are currently applicable. in order to ensure that the industry continues to develop and to remain competitive and to protect the environment, it is appropriate to apply flexibility measures until 2014 and to allow a certain number of engines to be placed on the market under a flexibility scheme. the implementation of these measures will mitigate as far as possible the impact of the current economic crisis on engine and machine manufacturers and will maintain the competitiveness and employment of the sector.
in writing. − i am strongly in favour of increased long-term investment and support for people with disabilities, as it is imperative that they are provided with the necessary means to enjoy equal rights, equal treatment and full participation in education, employment, social life and public life, in particular in relation to the right to vote. parliament has adopted significant decisions for the recognition and protection of the rights of people with disabilities, calling for legal standards and legislation at eu level. however, it is important that the new generation of human rights of people with disabilities be upheld through active and targeted policies ensuring the practical application of all human rights and guaranteeing equal opportunities and full access to services and products. one of the most important objectives is to improve the level of employment among the almost 80 million people with disabilities who live in the eu. an increased rate of poverty results in limited access to employment, training, healthcare and appropriate treatment, so disability benefits must therefore be guaranteed to those in need. states must develop national policies and strategies on disability, in harmony with the european disability strategy (eds), while at the same time introducing detailed deadlines and mechanisms for the implementation of the eds, particularly with regard to strengthening the role of parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. more than 80 million people, or about 16% of the total population of the european union, have a disability, and their unemployment rate is twice that of people without a disability. the disabled are thus among the most vulnerable and their poverty rate is over 70% above the average. the economic crisis has led to a reduction in the funding of measures and benefits for disabled people in some member states, which has further increased the social exclusion of this group. i believe that austerity measures that unduly reduce funding for services for people with disabilities or for projects that include them socially cannot be justified by the problems of the disabled. i agree that more use of the european structural funds, in particular the european regional development fund, is necessary to ensure that european funds improve access to goods and services for people with disabilities, reduce discrimination and exclusion against them and guarantee the right to a life of dignity and worth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, as it covers many of the issues that affect people with disabilities, such as education, employment, integration, appropriate adaptation of the environment, assistance to family members. in my view, the report quite appropriately highlights the importance of increasing the mobility of disabled people by removing the physical and social barriers that prevent disabled people from accessing public buildings, public services such as public transport, information technology and other facilities and services. i also support the idea put forward in the report that specific data should be collected on disability problems and disability-related services in the member states, including data on care institutions and the quality of services provided in them. i would like to point out that the main obstacles to the integration of disabled people into society are high unemployment rates, and that disabled people's unemployment is due to insufficient preparation for the labour market. in addition, it is necessary to assess the situation of disabled people in the labour market in each member state, explaining the reasons why they lose the incentive to take up employment, to help them integrate into the labour market through the european social fund (esf) and to facilitate the creation of jobs for disabled people by employers. this report emphasises that member states should provide general information to families raising children with disabilities, financial support, social and health services, psychological support, and more flexible working conditions for parents or one of them raising children with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because more than 80 million people, or about 16% of the eu population, have a disability, including people with mental disabilities, particularly autism, and because their unemployment rate is twice that of people without disabilities. disabled people are vulnerable and live in poverty 70% above the average. the employment rate for disabled people is only around 45%, and we are well aware that quality jobs provide economic independence and personal achievement. unemployment is known to increase the risk of poverty and social exclusion, as at least one in four people will experience mental health problems at least once in their lives and one in ten may develop chronic mental health problems. it is important to stress that an active and targeted policy is needed to deal with this unchanging situation. the increased risk of poverty is not only due to the often limited access to employment and education, but also to the often limited access to health care and adequate treatment. the europe 2020 target of 75% employment for people aged 20-64 will not be achieved without the inclusion of people with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because disabled people are one of the most vulnerable groups of people and need to be given special attention in the context of targeted and active policies. every effort should be made to integrate this social group into society, ensuring quality jobs, protection against discrimination and autonomy and freedom of choice. the disabled person must be given the opportunity to choose what he or she wants and is able to do, and society has a duty to help him or her to do so. in order to reduce the barriers between the 'healthy' and the 'disabled' and to ensure respect for the human rights and freedoms of persons living in care facilities, a control mechanism for the provision of services and legal protection for victims should be in place in each member state. in addition, the transition from institutional to community-based care models needs to be encouraged. in order to achieve the objectives set, i believe that more funding should be allocated to organisations of people with disabilities and to the development of social integration.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important issue. according to the lithuanian union of social enterprises for the disabled, there are approximately 270 000 disabled people in lithuania: 29% are pensioners, 6% are children. only 16 percent of people with disabilities are employed. i agree with the rapporteur that one of the main objectives of a european disability strategy should be to provide more employment for the more than 65 million people with disabilities living in europe. they must be included in overall economic and social development, otherwise they will remain at a disadvantage. the latest study by the international labour organisation shows that disabled workers could achieve good results if their work was adapted to their skills and abilities. you can't discriminate against people with disabilities. most ngo reports reveal that education and training systems today are not adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, and the number of students with disabilities who do not complete their studies remains high. in lithuania, 52% of all schools do not have specialised teachers or speech therapists. there is also a lack of social enterprises for people with disabilities who do not live in cities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the european commission's objectives to modernise the public procurement system in the european union. the current directives were adopted relatively recently, in 2004, and although a number of innovations were introduced into the previous public procurement system at that time, the situation has changed again in the last 6 years. one of the key issues in the public procurement system has always been the simplification of procedures to make them more efficient for buyers with limited resources, as well as the regulation of the issue of service concessions at eu level, the mandatory inclusion of social criteria in procurement procedures, the value thresholds for transactions, beyond which eu directives would automatically apply. in this document, the european parliament reaffirmed its position that there is no need for regulation of service concessions at eu level at present and that the inclusion of social criteria in procurement procedures should always remain voluntary, but recognised that the european commission should develop better procurement guides in this respect.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it aims to improve public procurement by simplifying procedures and giving more opportunities to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the scope of the directives should be clarified to cover public procurement activities which, according to recent judgments of the court of justice, are intended to provide direct economic benefits to contracting authorities. i welcome the european commission's efforts to involve public procurement bodies more effectively in the pursuit of common social objectives, but i also point out that the main obstacle lies in the public procurement directives themselves. as long as the criterion of the cheapest tender is as important in the directives as the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender, given the considerable economic problems faced by contracting authorities in this area, little will change. this will only change if it is stated that contracts must be awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender (for example, according to the principle 'apply or explain') and if the criteria for determining the most economically advantageous tender can be applied more easily. simpler eu public procurement rules and greater access to flexible procedures will help to promote sustainable and innovative purchasing practices. there are various options, such as continuous market monitoring, greater use of the negotiated procedure after they have been announced, and other additional measures that increase transparency or allow for the submission of substantive alternative proposals, in particular with regard to proposals based on the principle of sustainable development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because public procurement activities must provide direct economic benefits to contracting authorities, and not the other way around. simplified procurement rules and more flexible procedures are necessary to ensure a sustainable and modern procurement operation. i do not think it is appropriate for public procurement authorities to include environmental costs in the assessment of the most economically advantageous tender. in this context, i support the proposal to allow the decision-making authorities to decide for themselves whether or not to apply criteria other than those relating to public procurement. attention should be drawn to the need to strengthen the provisions for the conclusion of subcontracting contracts in order to provide the public authorities with all information relating to subcontractors in advance, before the conclusion of the contract. it is also necessary to ensure that sme subcontractors are not treated less favourably than the main contractor. in order to facilitate the participation of non-profit, social and smes entities in public procurement, the thresholds for supply and service contracts should be increased.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that eu rules should be simplified to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to bid on public contracts. smes are the backbone of lithuania's economy. these enterprises account for 76% of labour market employment in the business economy, which is 9% higher than the eu average. nevertheless, according to the statistics of the european commission, and compared to the eu average (28% versus 21%), the majority of lithuanian smes are experiencing financial problems. in lithuania, small enterprises receive only a small proportion of public procurement contracts than they should in view of their share of the economy. this is because today's procurement rules make tendering for contracts difficult and expensive. much remains to be done to create a fair and transparent eu regulatory framework for public procurement and to help smes to have better access to public procurement contracts both in the eu and in third countries. i agree with my alde colleagues that the 'once only' principle should apply, whereby the institutions should not ask for evidence that has already been provided in other procedures again. this should avoid burdensome bureaucratic obstacles.
in writing. − i support this report, which aims to reaffirm the european commitment to reinforcing the right of free movement for workers. member states must facilitate the exercise of this right, implementing existing legislation fully whilst bringing national legislation into line with the european provisions, in order to eliminate possible direct or indirect barriers, notably with regard to discriminatory behaviour based on nationality, refusal of rights for family members, and social security scheme rules, as well as other barriers that can prevent workers from moving freely in search of a job or can create disincentives to their doing to. in an era of globalised markets, the free movement of workers can address the problem of finding a profitable fit between labour demand and supply. the commission must strengthen its efforts in enforcing and supporting labour mobility, must conduct more in-depth analysis in relation to infringement procedures for non-compliant member states, and must present a long-term, comprehensive, multidisciplinary mobility strategy for analysing and removing all existing legal, administrative and practical barriers to the free movement of workers. over-protectionism in terms of labour mobility will induce a mistrust that could affect the eu’s performance as a world player. member states need to work and grow together.
in writing. − the right to live and work in another eu country is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu and an essential component of eu citizenship as recognised by the treaties. however, some eu member states still have administrative and bureaucratic obstacles that prevent eu citizens from fully enjoying their rights, and insufficient efforts are being made to combat discrimination and exploitation of migrant workers. i agree with the calls for member states to simplify the administrative procedures relating to the right of free movement of workers in order to avoid unjustified, unnecessary or complex administrative procedures that restrict the exercise of that right. the commission should carry out a comprehensive study identifying the obstacles faced by european union workers wishing to exercise their right to free movement and assessing the action taken by the member states in this regard. the commission should also assess the current economic situation of member states in terms of labour markets and monitor member states to better align migration policies with labour aspects, to better address labour shortages and to stimulate domestic production and growth in their economies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i was appointed rapporteur for the opinion and i believe that the text put to the vote in plenary reflects the main idea i proposed - that the mobility of workers must be encouraged, but that this must be done in a responsible way. this means that when we encourage people to move, we must ensure that their rights as workers are not violated and that they are not exploited in a foreign country. we also need to ensure that people who go to work in other countries are not forced to squander their education, skills and work experience on jobs that are better paid but with lower qualifications. finally, i called for an assessment of the situation in countries where, especially recently, emigration is very high for purely economic reasons and where a large number of highly educated and highly skilled workers leave. such mass migration in the future could cost these 'donor states' a great deal not only economically but also socially. the commission and the member states should therefore start looking for solutions to this problem now.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because living and working in another member state is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu, regardless of a person's ethnic origin, and an essential constituent of eu citizenship recognised by the treaties, yet statistics show that too few people still make use of this right, despite concrete initiatives to support labour mobility. the free movement of workers is a positive social and economic example for both the eu and the member states, as it is an important stage in eu integration, economic development, social cohesion, personal professional development, the fight against prejudice, racism and xenophobia, and can help to reverse the negative effects of the economic crisis and better prepare for the challenges of global change by engaging in dialogue with all stakeholders in decision-making and civil society. the commission must continue to promote labour mobility and present a long-term, comprehensive, multidisciplinary mobility strategy aimed at removing all existing legal, administrative and practical obstacles to the free movement of workers. consistent, effective and transparent policies are needed to respond to labour market and economic trends. it should be noted that mobility should remain voluntary, and that the negative side effects of increased mobility, which lead to 'mind drain' and the departure of young people, as well as the negative impact on family life and children when one or both parents work abroad, should be more effectively mitigated at eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the obstacles still existing throughout the european union to the exercise of the right to free movement of workers must be removed and the conditions for integration into the new social and cultural environment must be created. all member states must properly implement equal treatment of workers and ensure adequate protection of labour rights, and active labour market policy programmes to promote mobility must be developed. in addition, eu policies to combat direct and indirect discrimination and to remove legal and administrative barriers need to be strengthened. it should be noted that in order to facilitate the mobility of workers, we need to ensure that this right is not abused for the purposes of inequality, wages and social dumping.
in writing. − the free movement of workers is a very sensitive issue. it will shape the economic and social future of the eu. the free movement of workers is a right that all member states agreed upon, yet many member states have introduced or reintroduced restrictions. approximately one third of workers in the eu are in precarious job situations, and this leads to an increase in workers seeking jobs in other countries. the commission provided figures proving that eastern european workers, in particular, did not hinder the economy but in fact brought economic growth. there is a single market for capital and goods, but there are still limitations on the single labour market. western companies can operate without restrictions in eastern europe, and do so with varying degrees of success, but eastern european workers face restrictions in western europe. this is economically, politically and morally wrong. people have a right to jobs: a right that is granted by the eu. i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises that the eu must guarantee european values, including freedom and mobility, for all. comprehensive mobility for workers must be promoted, the rights of workers in foreign countries must be protected and such workers must not be exploited. it is vital to reaffirm the principle of job mobility and to promote geographic mobility.
in writing. − the services directive was adopted in 2006 and remains a key instrument for the creation of a fully functioning single market for services. member states have made a great deal of effort to implement it. nevertheless, efforts should be stepped up to ensure full and proper implementation of the services directive and to establish fully functioning common information points. the functioning of the common market for services is a prerequisite for promoting economic growth, decent employment and innovation in europe and for maintaining europe's competitiveness in the world. the mutual evaluation provided for in the services directive is an important tool for identifying further initiatives to improve the internal market for services. i agree that the commission should continue and strengthen its cooperation with each member state individually in order to ensure that the services directive is fully and correctly transposed and implemented in all member states and that the remaining obstacles to businesses taking full advantage of the single internal market are removed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it provides the european parliament with its assessment of the functioning of one of the mechanisms established by the mutual evaluation procedure in the services directive adopted in 2006. this is a new instrument, used for the first time in eu law, and its main objective is to assess the situation of the internal market in services following the implementation of this directive. the report therefore not only provides an overview of the results but also suggests ways of improving this process in the future, including by providing parliament with its assessment of the application of such a measure in other policy areas. the mutual evaluation process has been applied only to those provisions of the directive which leave a certain degree of discretion to the member states, such as certain provisions relating to the establishment of undertakings and the cross-border provision of services. the european parliament considers that the objectives of mutual evaluation are still not sufficiently defined, which has led to misunderstandings between member states, and that more should be done to make the process more transparent. although a certain degree of confidentiality is an important condition for building trust between member states, the report proposes to ensure that stakeholders are regularly provided with feedback on the progress of the process.
in writing. − this report summarises the experience of peer review with regard to the services directive and expresses general but conditional support for the application of this method in other policy areas. this report also discusses the results of the mutual evaluation and the next steps towards a better functioning of the internal market for services. i agreed with the view that the mutual evaluation provided for in the services directive is an important tool for identifying further initiatives to improve the internal market for services. the remaining regulatory obstacles, such as the rules on reservation of activities, insurance requirements, legal form and capital ownership requirements, should be removed. it is necessary to focus on unjustified or disproportionate requirements which should be abolished in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market and the maximum added value of the functioning of the single market for services. the commission must therefore continue and strengthen its cooperation with each member state individually in order to ensure the full and correct transposition of the services directive into national law and its implementation in all member states. in the meantime, member states must ensure that new and existing requirements are non-discriminatory, necessary and proportionate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the experience of mutual evaluation in relation to the services directive should be applied to other policy areas. it should be noted that the mutual evaluation process contributes to greater confidence among member states and provides an opportunity for member states to share best practices. the mutual evaluation process contributes to the improvement of the internal market for services and creates better conditions for its functioning. this assessment will help to identify the true state of the internal market after the implementation of the services directive, the impact of this directive on economic activity and employment, unjustified and disproportionate requirements. it should be noted that in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the single market, priority should be given to targeted actions that deliver the greatest added value from the functioning of the single market for services, and particular attention should be paid to those sectors and professions that promote the growth of cross-border provision of services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on global economic governance and i support the position of the rapporteur that global imbalances constitute a potential threat to financial and macro-economic stability. therefore, global economic governance has to be reformed in order to help rebalance the world economy and avoid another slump. we, members of the european parliament, supported the need for a global understanding and a common approach in relation to monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies, on the basis of economic fundamentals. the global economy should be characterised by open markets, in which high social and environmental standards are vital, and the international monetary fund and the world trade organization should play a core role. alongside the completion of the single market, the economic governance framework in the eu must be strengthened.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it contains european parliament recommendations on global economic governance to the international monetary fund, the g20 and the world trade organisation (wto), as well as to the commission and the council. i believe that the european parliament's involvement in the debate on how the global economy should be managed in the future is crucial to preventing a repetition of a similar crisis in the future and to managing the current crisis and mitigating its effects as much as possible. in its report, the european parliament reiterated the importance of a responsible monetary policy and strong financial regulation and supervision at this time. parliament also stressed that the reform of global economic governance should ensure that global markets are integrated into a comprehensive institutional framework and that favourable conditions for long-term investment are created.
in writing. − the key to the rebalancing of the global economy is two-fold: increased competitiveness and wide-ranging reforms to stimulate growth in deficit countries, and market opening and sound monetary policy in surplus countries. there are many international organisations dedicated to managing the world economy, such as the imf, the world bank, the wto, the un conference on trade and development (unctad) and the international finance corporation (ifc), as well as the intergovernmental forums of the g7 and g20, of which the imf and g20 are the most effective, although both still need to be improved and global markets need global rules. there is a global recognition that some sectors of the financial industry contributed to the global financial crisis and exposed financial mismanagement, reinforced the sovereign debt crisis and a general consensus that the financial sector needs to be made more accountable, including to cover some of the losses incurred as a result of the crisis. i have endorsed this document because the lack of coordinated and effective regulation and supervision of the global financial system has exposed the financial sector to weaknesses that have subsequently further increased the vulnerability of the global economy and i believe that decisive action is needed to avoid similar crises in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the current global turmoil has forced us to urgently re-shape the global economic governance model. in particular, it is necessary to develop globally common, robust and effectively functioning rules for global financial markets to ensure coordinated and effective regulation and supervision. open markets for all market participants should be ensured, with the promotion of increased competitiveness and wide-ranging reforms. i think that the possibility of using special borrowing rights instead of the dollar as the world's reserve currency would help stabilize the global financial system. it is also essential to have a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies, based on key economic indicators. trade policy must focus on fair trade, democracy, human rights, working conditions and sustainable development.
in writing. − i strongly support this proposal, which aims to combat the inequalities that single mothers face in europe. member states must invest and must promote research into the issue, taking advantage of the newly created european institute for gender equality in vilnius, while also initiating dialogues with other member states in order to develop implementation strategies. policies towards single mothers differ across europe. the high unemployment rate for single mothers – combined with the gender pay gap – results in their being torn between taking on debt and caring for their children. we must encourage national policies that will guarantee indirect subsidies for the purchase of food. we must provide tax credits for single parents, along the lines of the arrangements that exist in austria, belgium, the netherlands and the uk. a european incentive to member states that provide healthcare for mothers and children where the family is below the national average would be a positive step. flexible job opportunities, including part-time work, teleworking, and e-jobs, should be offered at local, national and eu level to enable single mothers to reconcile their private and professional lives. germany can be used as a model in relation to increasing unemployment benefits for single mothers with dependent children.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i am glad that the european parliament has paid a great deal of attention to single mothers, whose number is unfortunately increasing in europe. single mothers now account for 5% of european women. single mothers are not to be forgotten, but still in europe, about 85% of all single-parent families are single mothers. i would like to emphasise that poverty was most acute for single mothers in almost all of europe during the economic crisis. as regards the risk of poverty, it is important to recognise that children in single-mother care experience higher levels of poverty than children in traditional families where both parents are usually working. it should also be remembered that not all single mothers can work full-time if their children are very young. the number of children in a single-mother family also needs to be considered. in order to enable single mothers to balance their careers and family life, flexible working conditions such as remote working, part-time work and flexible working arrangements should be provided for them. tax breaks for single-parent families, reimbursement of medical expenses, the establishment of family centres and the initiation of special training programmes for single mothers are all necessary. they must also be given priority access to places in crèches and nurseries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because it calls for greater attention to be paid to the situation of single women. member states are required to implement public policies, including education policy, care provision, health policy, employment policy, social security systems, housing policy, to meet the needs of and take into account the reality of single-parent families, in particular the real situation of single-parent families. i believe that the aim should be to increase the autonomy and independence of single mothers, to reduce their feelings of passivity and loneliness, to increase their social awareness, to improve their childrearing skills and to provide them with better access to information on their rights and employment opportunities. the european commission and the member states must take into account the specific situation of single mothers in different european countries and provide special support to single mothers belonging to the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. − at present, up to 5% of the total female population in the eu are single mothers, i.e. mostly women aged 25 to 40. in latvia and estonia, the figure is as high as 9%. this is a relatively new social phenomenon. the growing number of single mothers is associated with a devaluation of the family as a basic social unit. i believe that this new and difficult to define social category should be included in the social security system. however, we should find the optimal basket of support measures - the good proposals set out in the report should not be an incentive to put the traditional family in a less advantageous position, since we are interested in the fact that as many children as possible grow up in full families. this report is not only about single mothers, but also about child poverty, and i support the suggestions it makes to help children escape the cycle of poverty. moreover, in the current economic situation, particularly for those member states suffering from emigration, it is necessary to promote the inclusion of all social categories in economic growth. single mothers and parents are one of the important categories that should receive support and facilitate their entry into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because a common policy in this area is necessary, as unmarried mothers make up a large proportion of the population. it is noteworthy that this family model is often characterised by poverty and social exclusion. to solve the problems and make life easier for single mothers, we need to develop their independence and autonomy. in particular, the european structural funds should be used to promote maternal employment, the activities of family centres and other informal networks that care for single mothers, and the exchange of best practices. only by working together can we ensure that single mothers are not doomed to failure, but are empowered and happy mothers.
in writing. − in the eu, 5% of women are single mothers. this group is difficult to identify as it is categorised differently across the eu, yet these women need help. in some parts of europe, a woman’s extended family helps to bring up a child or children, but in other areas social benefits are of great help to single women. these women have to cope with a task often shared by two parents. single mothers and their children are at a high risk of poverty. among single-parent families, every third child lives below the poverty line or is in danger of being in poverty. the current economic crisis has not helped the situation. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for a change in policy – particularly in public policies involving education, health care, employment, social assistance and housing – to benefit single mothers. member states should promote appropriate models to support single mothers: models that help these women enter the labour market. there must also be an exchange of good practice among member states. only then can strong policies in support of single mothers be developed and implemented.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important announcement. according to eurostat, lithuania has one of the highest rates of single mothers with children in the eu: 6% in lithuania, compared with 2% in greece, finland or romania. one of the most worrying is the poverty of children raised by single mothers. the high employment rate of single mothers is a barrier to protecting children from poverty. lithuania's child poverty rate is almost 22%, which is above the eu average (20,3%). children who grow up with only one parent are at greater risk of poverty. according to lithuanian national statistics, 44% of single-parent families are at risk of poverty. in lithuania, high levels of child poverty are partly due to low family allowances, which are well below the eu average. lithuanian single mothers find it very difficult to balance work and child rearing. according to the european commission, lithuania is not fully implementing the barcelona targets, which cover 9% of children under 3 years of age and 62% of children from three years of age to school age. i support the rapporteur's proposal to make use of the recently established european institute for gender equality in vilnius.
in writing. − i fully support this proposal, which aims to tackle organised crime at eu level. organised crime is a key threat to the internal security of the eu, polluting the legal economy, infringing human rights, subverting the rules of democracy and hindering implementation of the eu’s commitments to its citizens. the institutions must therefore make a concrete political effort to counter it. organised crime now has a transnational basis and it has to be fought using the same approach. the eu legislative framework in this regard must be improved and member states must ensure effective ratification and/or transposition of all european and international legal instruments relating directly or indirectly to action to combat organised crime. entrenched mafia-style organised crime in the eu must be eradicated, and the function of the european bodies involved in various ways in fighting organised crime must be strengthened. of utmost importance is full compliance with the principle of the mutual recognition of criminal decisions, with a view to combating organised crime and to improving judicial cooperation between member states and with third countries. it is stressed that measures countering organised crime must be consistent with respect for fundamental rights and proportionate to the objectives pursued.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because organised crime groups are becoming increasingly politically active in the european union and the trafficking of drugs, international arms trafficking, human trafficking and exploitation, financial crime of all kinds, counterfeiting, environmental crime, cybercrime, fraud, extortion (trafficking), misappropriation of public funds - most of these crimes are becoming targets for money laundering - is on the rise. the reports estimate the turnover of the italian mafia alone at around eur 135 billion, which, in cooperation with the mafia in other countries, is increasingly profitable and economically advantageous. organised crime is international in scope and has a high cost to society, as well as human rights violations. the report sets out ambitious objectives for the formulation of appropriate proposals to combat crime, to create greater freedom, security and justice in the european union and to combat crime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, as is well known, the objective of organised crime (corruption, racketeering, drug trafficking, money laundering, etc.) is to obtain economic benefits, and therefore effective action to prevent and combat this phenomenon must focus on identifying, freezing, seizing and confiscating the assets acquired through criminal means. the current regulatory framework at eu level does not sufficiently ensure serious counter-measures, and therefore a regulatory framework is needed that allows for, for example, so-called extended asset seizures and lawsuits for assets registered in the name of others. member states should strengthen judicial authorities and law enforcement agencies on the basis of best available experience, by comparing legislation and instruments to support their activities and by allocating adequate human and financial resources. measures should be taken to help combat this recognised threat to the european union and its citizens, such as the establishment of a special commission of inquiry into the spread of transnational criminal organisations, including the mafia, the preparation of an impact assessment of the additional benefits of the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, the improvement of practical cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the member states, the exclusion of enterprises linked to organised crime and the mafia from participation in public tenders and the management of public procurement and similar measures.
in writing. −the need to strengthen the response to organised crime in the european union and beyond requires joint action and better coordination between the relevant eu institutions and between member states. i voted in favour of the report because it contains a series of specific proposals on how to increase the deterrent effect and make penalties more effective, while respecting fundamental rights and freedoms. the report also takes into account the external dimension of organised crime. in some third countries, corruption is deeply rooted as part of the culture of social relations. in addition to making full use of the instruments available to promote the fight against corruption in third countries, the eu should monitor the procedures for the allocation and use of eu funds in third countries to ensure that they meet the eu's high standards of transparency and publicity. it should be noted that, in addition to the maximum transparency of procedures and the publication of all information on public finances, the availability to the public of data on criminal offences and persons involved in them would be an effective tool. corruption is linked to organised crime and member states and the eu should make additional efforts to reduce the tolerance of even 'small' corruption in their societies.
in writing. − colleagues, based on the 2011 europol report on the assessment of organised crime the sudden surge in organized crime in lithuania is a serious problem. my country is mentioned 24 times in the report, compared to latvia, which is mentioned only once, or estonia, which is mentioned three times. europol claims that the assets of lithuanian criminal groups have increased their recruitment, infiltration and investment opportunities. the report describes the important role of lithuanian groups in the trafficking of drugs (including amphetamines, methamphetamines and ecstasy) with eu countries. they are also involved in counterfeiting euro banknotes and smuggling cigarettes. as the ep report says, organised crime is a multi-billion dollar business in europe and growing. the spread of illicit trafficking, as well as the opportunities offered by the global economic crisis, have made organized crime even more dangerous. the rapporteur proposes a number of measures, including improving the european legal framework, to help strengthen the fight against organised crime at eu level. we also need to fight political forces that look the other way and sometimes indirectly support the problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the high-level forum on aid effectiveness through which the european parliament stresses the necessity for the eu to adopt a strong position in busan in order to achieve global consensus on an effective and truly inclusive partnership for development and identify clear and measurable aims in order to increase aid effectiveness, supplemented by an effective follow-up mechanism. the report underlines that future success will depend on factors such as engaging stronger national parliaments in the monitoring of aid as well as local authorities and civil society organisations; enhancing efforts towards political, administrative and fiscal decentralization in partner countries and better coordination of activities between donor countries. we, as members of the european parliament, stated that aid effectiveness requires poor countries to be able to mobilise domestic revenues; therefore, we urge the eu to make the fight against tax havens and tax evasion its utmost priority, while promoting alternative sources of development finance. i am also in favour of the eu advocating, in busan, the introduction of binding measures which will ensure that aid provision complies with human rights agreements, as all governments – donor and recipient – are bound by human rights obligations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it sets out the european parliament's recommendations for the 4th high-level forum on aid effectiveness to be held in south korea in november this year. indeed, the european union and its member states provide more than half of the world's official development assistance, and the eu therefore plays an important role in the implementation of the aid effectiveness agenda. the document notes that, according to the latest monitoring and evaluation studies, recipient countries have done more than donor countries in implementing commitments under previously adopted development assistance declarations and agendas. the parties are therefore invited to further discuss in the forthcoming forum how to increase transparency and accountability in the provision of assistance and to reduce fragmentation of assistance. the document also expresses the belief that the eu must take an ambitious stance in the forum, as this would help to discuss in more detail and fully implement the commitments in the area of aid effectiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the success of the fourth high-level forum will depend on a firm commitment to increase the effectiveness of assistance, i.e. by setting clear and measurable objectives and precise deadlines for their implementation. the paris declaration and the accra agenda for action are not being sufficiently implemented. the importance of bottom-up governance of development, consistency of support and the establishment of robust, effective and independent monitoring mechanisms involving parliaments and civil society at both national and international level is emphasised. support should be leveraged to promote inclusive and sustainable growth by taking into account the specificities of each country, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of support in countries that need it most, with a view to reducing poverty and aid dependency, promoting job creation and self-sustaining sustainable economic growth in developing countries. i believe that development aid is not enough to eradicate poverty and that aid should be directed at the causes of poverty rather than the consequences. more effective support through engagement in the development process is needed to build a strong and environmentally sound economy in the beneficiary countries, ensuring access to basic social services for all citizens and reducing dependency on support over time.
in writing. − a recent report published by the oecd shows that only one target out of 12 set by the paris declaration for 2010 has been met. another study shows that more ambitious application of the principles of the declaration could have saved the eu and its member states billions. against the background of the economic difficulties the eu and its member states currently face, the real challenge lies not so much in reaching the quantitative target level of oda, but in achieving the biggest impact with the money we spend. the procedures and practices to achieve this are there, the thing lacking is strong leadership and sustained political commitment to accelerate implementation. china, a signatory of the paris declaration as a recipient, has actively expanded its aid programme at a rate of around 30% per year for the past five years. now is a good time to find ways to involve china in the aid architecture, as it seeks to enhance the impact of its policies and aid. both donors and recipient countries have received a sobering signal, and the 4th high level meeting in busan is a forum to draw conclusions and look for a way forward to achieve mdgs.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very well-written report. we have set a very ambitious target in the 2020 strategy to reach an employment rate of 75%. and that means, first of all, that we have no right to forget any social group or any potential employee. and by that i mean, first of all, young people, women, the elderly, people of pre-retirement age, people with disabilities. all these groups share a common goal: these people must be properly educated, trained, retrained in time and have the right skills to be the right people for the job. i would also like to stress that employers should be involved in the development of vocational training programmes, in the development of various other training programmes, because this means that they have to say what kind of people we need now, what kind of people we will need in the future.
indeed, the situation in europe today is very complex and it was therefore a major task to find a common consensus in the 2012 budget. i should like to begin by thanking my colleague francesca balzani and the two other colleagues who have tabled this draft budget. yes, today we are waiting for a joint decision which should be taken in brussels, but whatever it is, it will need to be financed and therefore the 2012 budget could be a historic budget which might allow europe to stabilise the economic situation and perhaps even to ensure growth. to do that, i think many have already said, there has to be a massive investment in research, in innovation. we also need to review agricultural policy so that in the future all countries are financed more equitably, so that we can ensure the creation of additional jobs. of course, perhaps our primary goal is to use funds more efficiently. that is what we must focus on.
in writing. today's debate on the 2012 budget is very similar to last year's debate. the arguments of both the council and the parliament have not changed. the economic crisis is still ongoing, so the council's aim of cutting all spending as much as possible is understandable. i think that this has been taken into account in parliament's position. the budget is growing by only 1.9 percent, which is less than inflation, and some budget cuts have also been made. i agree that strict budgetary discipline is necessary, but we must not forget the financial commitments that are made and the consequences of not fulfilling them in the long term. i want to emphasize again what i have said many times: to get out of the crisis we must invest in the future. adequate funding is needed for priority programmes that promote economic growth and job creation. we must strive to deliver effectively on our own targets set out in 'strategy 2020'. the proposed cuts by the council to the 7th research programme, to small and medium-sized enterprises and to programmes promoting the competitiveness of enterprises are therefore unjustified. i believe that parliament's position maintains a responsible approach to the 2012 budget and i am convinced that the efficient and balanced use of eu funds will help to speed up the recovery of the european economy and create additional incentives for the creation of new jobs, thus creating conditions for social and economic well-being.
unemployment in the european union is a particularly painful and worrying problem. this report proposes a number of good measures to reduce unemployment, particularly among young people. however, i would like to point out that during this term of office we have already discussed a number of strategies and proposals to reduce unemployment. this includes the creation of green jobs and the promotion of youth employment and the problem of employment of certain social groups. if all these proposals were put into practice, rather than left on the table, i believe that the european union would already have achieved its 2010 targets in 2015. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposals, but i would also point out that, in particular, better coordination of the implementation of the measures already adopted is needed, both to reduce unemployment and to save money for other priorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on parliament's position on the draft eu budget for 2012. i agree that the europe 2020 strategy must be at the heart of the eu's 2012 budget strategy, as this policy is a very important and necessary component of the eu's economic recovery strategy and therefore requires urgently to secure the right investments at eu and national level. i also believe that the eu budget should be a tool to help member states implement economic recovery policies by encouraging and supporting national investments that will boost growth and employment. the council reduced the commission's draft budget by 1.08 per cent of commitment appropriations and by 2.75 per cent of payment appropriations. i hope that in the negotiations with the council in november, parliament will be able to reach a proper agreement on the 2012 budget, which will ensure the development of the eu economy.
in writing. - i have endorsed this document as it will be the starting point for the negotiations with the council in november. the aim is to increase funding for the structural funds and innovation, as well as for migration management and foreign policy, compared to this year. the eu budget for 2012 should be focused on fully supporting the european economy and eu citizens. the eu budget should be structured in a leveraged way - boosting growth and employment opportunities and supporting actions that are implemented through member states' budgets. i believe that the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy should be taken into account. the relatively inflexible allocation of the union budget to agriculture demonstrates budgetary predictability and the need and obligation to ensure full commitment and payment matching in the area of direct payments, which account for at least 70% of the cap budget, so that any deviations are usually linked to market distortions. promoting a strong, sustainable and inclusive economy, creating jobs and ensuring high-quality employment, through the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy is an objective shared by all 27 member states and the eu institutions. to help europe recover from the crisis and become stronger, the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must be at the heart of the eu's 2012 budget strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway on cooperation in the field of satellite navigation, as this issue is of importance to both parties to the agreement. this decision will allow for the establishment and maintenance of better relations with the kingdom of norway, located in the western part of the scandinavian peninsula, which is considered to be one of the most successful examples of a prosperous capitalist state. the country is considered the world's third largest oil exporter after saudi arabia and russia, and, although it contributes heavily to the eu budget, it refuses to become a full member of the union. cooperation thus has a positive impact on the european union's economy and one of the main objectives is to further strengthen cooperation between the parties by supplementing the provisions of the agreement on satellite navigation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because of all the non-eu countries, the eu has the closest cooperation with norway in the implementation of the european gnss programmes galileo and egnos. as a member of the european space agency and an informal participant in the ec galileo management systems for many years, norway has contributed politically, technically and financially to all stages of galileo's implementation. this agreement formalises cooperation between norway and the european union in the field of satellite navigation. the agreement lays down general principles for cooperation and the rights and obligations of norway in the areas referred to above. the agreement is necessary because two important ground installations will be installed in norway to help ensure the proper functioning of the system. in this context, norway commits to support the future union policy aimed at protecting the european gnss.
in writing. − i believe that it is particularly appropriate and useful to conclude an agreement with the kingdom of norway on cooperation in the field of satellite navigation. in particular, as a member of the european space agency and through its long-standing informal involvement in the esa's galileo governance systems, norway has contributed politically, technically and financially to all stages of galileo's implementation. in addition, two important ground installations are planned in norway to help ensure the proper functioning of the system. in this context, norway commits to support the future union policy aimed at protecting the european gnss. it should be noted that the eu should formally establish close cooperation on all aspects of the european gnss programmes in order to ensure an adequate level of protection of the services provided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament recommends that the council conclude an agreement between the european community and its member states and the united states of america on the promotion, supply and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and associated applications. one of the main objectives of this agreement is to establish a framework for cooperation between the parties in the promotion, provision and use of gps and galileo navigation and timing signals. gps signals are a public positioning system for a given object, managed by the us department of defence and made available free of charge to its member states, while galileo signals, managed by the eu, are competitors to gps signals, which are expected to improve the quality of the service of this navigation system, strengthening the economic stability of the european union. the other main objectives of the galileo programme are to facilitate the use of these signals, services and equipment for commercial, peaceful, civil and scientific purposes.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the agreement between the european union and the european community and its member states on the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and associated programmes is being concluded on behalf of the european union. gps and galileo, if their radio frequencies are coordinated and interoperate at user level, could increase the number of satellites visible from any location on earth and improve access to navigation signals for civilian users worldwide. i am convinced that cooperation is needed to achieve the full benefits of this important technology in all relevant application areas.
in writing. − i agree to the conclusion of this eu-us agreement on the promotion, provision and use of the galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and related programmes. i believe that close cooperation in this area is essential to ensure that the benefits of these important technologies are available in all relevant fields of application. it is noted that the agreement will ensure full compatibility and interoperability between the existing global navigation satellites and positioning systems. in addition, markets will be opened, trade growth will be encouraged, and users of satellite navigation systems and equipment suppliers will be given favourable opportunities to extend their services by ensuring compatibility of radio frequencies with existing systems and equipment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as early as 1 april 1987, the commission decided that all acts which had been amended not more than ten times should be codified in order to make their provisions clear and easy to understand (all the acts governing a given area are combined into one document). this proposal will codify council directive 90/435/eec of 23 july 1990 on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states, which will replace the various acts whose provisions were incorporated into it and will provide greater clarity for the parties concerned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because social inequalities are increasing in europe and there is a need for concrete initiatives to tackle this phenomenon. individuals and companies are subject to different tax systems in each european union country. national tax bases are almost always illegal. to prevent this, the existing directive should be supplemented as soon as possible with stricter provisions to combat abuse. one of the main objectives of amending this directive is therefore to facilitate as far as possible the conditions for multinational mergers. to seek to limit the erosion of the tax base by eu companies and to apply minimum requirements to dividend income from subsidiaries established in third countries. another problem that will have to be solved in the future is double taxation. the commission has already put forward a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base, which already solves part of the problem. however, this measure can only be effective if the possibilities of avoiding corporate tax in the eu are limited in the future.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal does not contain any substantive changes other than those mentioned and because, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts and of the amendments mentioned, the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. − i support this resolution because a common eu tax system for parent companies and subsidiaries in different member states will facilitate multinational mergers. the tax obstacles faced by companies from different member states in comparison with companies from the same member state will also be removed. such legislation will thus protect national tax revenues and, in addition, prevent misuse and double taxation by the very stringent measures provided for in the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the revision of the eu financial regulation. the regulation lays down the budgetary principles and financial rules governing the establishment and implementation of the general budget, ensures sound and efficient management, control and protection of the financial interests of the union and enhances the transparency to which all legislative acts must conform and which all institutions must observe. i believe that the draft regulation proposed by parliament duly simplifies and clarifies the eu's financial rules, taking account of the current circumstances of the eu and the challenges ahead, and also ensures greater transparency of the eu budget, improves its efficiency and effectiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the 2002 council regulation on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities has been substantially amended several times and now requires further amendments to take account of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. this regulation lays down the budgetary principles and financial rules applicable to the establishment and implementation of the general budget, ensuring sound and efficient management, control and the protection of the financial interests of the union, and enhancing the transparency to be observed in all legislative acts and to be complied with by all institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the agenda for new skills and jobs. the economic, financial and social crisis now affecting europe highlights the weaknesses of the european economic and social model. the draft adopted by the commission in november 2010 entitled ‘an agenda for new skills and jobs: a european contribution towards full employment’ is part of the europe 2020 strategy, representing the commission’s contribution towards achieving the member states’ ambitious goal of 75% employment for the 20-64 age group by 2020. in attaining this goal, the commission proposed action in four main areas: furthering labour market reform, updating people’s skills in line with labour market requirements through training programs, improving the quality of labour legislation and action to ensure labour market conditions. i support this proposal, which suggests several improvements; the reduction of administrative burdens and red tape for smes, measures to improve the work-life balance, the need to improve the directive on the temporary posting of workers, the need for further progress on the mutual recognition of qualifications as between the eu and third countries and closer cooperation between educational institutions and the world of business.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a really comprehensive and well-balanced document, presenting the european parliament's opinion to the european commission on the commission's proposed new skills and jobs agenda. i am particularly pleased that the document gives equal attention to the problems of employment in all age groups, so that we are finally not only talking about the problem of youth unemployment, but also about the unemployment of older people. we cannot leave any group of people of working age behind, especially as more than one member state has just extended the retirement age of its workers. when it comes to youth and older unemployment, we need to look for ways to promote solidarity between generations, not conflict. i am also pleased that many of the presentations emphasised the need for employers to work more closely with education and training institutions to prepare the specialists most needed by the labour market in the future, and for this purpose to carry out more detailed labour market research. equally important are the measures proposed in the report to reconcile the work and private lives of workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because in the europe 2020 strategy member states agreed to reach the employment target of 75% for the 20-64 age group by 2020, which is closely linked to economic growth and the sustainability of social protection systems and public finances. i believe that national measures to balance labour market flexibility and employment guarantees need to be revised in the light of new socioeconomic conditions. the need to stimulate labour demand and create jobs is urgent. i also believe that there is room for improvement, particularly in the following areas: reducing the administrative burden on smes and red tape to create jobs; better monitoring and forecasting of future skills needs, thus allowing for better matching with supply and targeting of skills development to ensure greater lifelong employment opportunities. take into account the need to strengthen the rules on the balance between labour market flexibility and employment guarantees and to adapt them to the social and economic conditions of each member state in order to ensure a flexible labour market, proactive labour market policies, lifelong learning and modern welfare systems; to pursue closer cooperation between educational institutions and business enterprises and similar measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the new skills and jobs agenda is one of the key drivers of progress, sustainable and inclusive growth, which ensures full employment and prosperity. it should be noted that in order to improve competitiveness and working and living conditions, it is necessary to develop and implement more effective employment, education and work organisation strategies at eu level. this will ensure the creation of decent jobs, and provide opportunities for lifelong learning, qualifications and skills development for all age groups. attention should be drawn to the need to involve employers more actively in the activities of educational establishments and to promote more active social dialogue throughout the eu. in order to respond promptly to the challenges facing the european labour market, i support the creation of a european employment observatory and the planned eu skills panorama. the key components of the balance between labour market flexibility and employment guarantees need to be revised and strengthened in order to achieve the objectives set.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls on eu member states to better coordinate their economic policies in order to create jobs and facilitate effective competition. throughout europe, there are various inequalities within employment policies. while maintaining budgetary discipline is crucial to avoid debt, spending cuts in areas such as education and the labour market would increase the shortage of skilled workers in europe. competitiveness and employment must be promoted to move towards a sustainable, stronger and greener economy. to improve competitiveness in the eu, as well as create new jobs, there must be better education and employment strategies. i support the rapporteur, who urges the eu to combat discrimination of any kind, whether based on gender, age or nationality, more effectively. the flexicurity arrangements that exist must be strengthened and adapted to each member state. member states must improve workers' rights. even at a time of economic problems, social and unemployment protection can not be sacrificed. additionally, member states should help workers integrate their jobs and their family life. innovation is necessary to further boost employment. pursuing full employment must go hand-in-hand with improving working conditions.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, lithuania's youth unemployment rate (34%) is one of the highest in the eu. only greece and spain have higher rates. one of the reasons for this unjustifiably high rate is the incompatibility between the requirements of the labour market and the qualifications of young people. last year, 52% of all young unemployed people who registered at the labour exchange had no vocational training. the best way to combat unemployment is still through vocational training and education. according to this report, improving workers' knowledge and skills in line with labour market requirements will increase employability and help europe recover in the long term. the labour market needs to be further restructured to provide greater flexibility and security in the labour market. eu governments, including mine, should do more to provide businesses with the right incentives to invest in training. in my view, the area requiring more attention is longterm unemployment. according to the second quarter of 2011, 52% of registered unemployed in lithuania have been looking for work for a year or more. the new jobs and skills agenda should target this group.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the participants in this debate. what can i say? i am greatly invigorated by the comments that i have heard from all sides of this chamber and i can say that at present we are finalising the communication that will be presented to the european parliament and to the council – unless we find unexpected hitches – on 17 november. i hope that will lead to a creative debate and a concrete plan of action that will see us fight and reduce antimicrobial resistance. basically – and i am not going to repeat the various comments that have been made in this house – the issue is prudent use and research. prudent use in the human health sphere, both through the discipline of practitioners in prescribing (and i totally agree that we have to move to prescription-only antibiotics) and in the case of patients, who have to be educated in how to use antibiotic medicines. the misuse of antibiotics, even if prescribed, can lead to a continuation of this hazard. concerning animal husbandry, i believe that we are realising that this is a key issue and that the abuse of antibiotics in veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed is one cause of the problems that we are facing today. therefore i believe that concrete action in this regard is also going to be called for. concerning research, what i can say is that the commission is fully committed to exploring, with all relevant stakeholders, how to ensure the development of new effective antimicrobials, stimulate antimicrobial development and promote and support research and innovation in this area. we are already in preliminary discussions on this issue, and i hope that we can pull together all european resources to really concentrate and focus on fighting this and creating new medicines as new antibiotics. but i have to remind this house – and i have to remind everybody – that creating new molecules, new medicine, is not the solution. it is the appropriate use of antibiotics that is the solution to this problem.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? members of the european parliament! thank you very much for a very productive discussion on antibiotic resistance. antibiotic resistance affects all microorganisms and all antibiotics, but the most dangerous is a group called the alarm pathogens. therefore, all possible measures should be taken to ensure that the activity of the antibiotics available today is maintained for as long as possible. i agree with mrs grossetête, the ppe member, who believes that controlling the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine and medicine is one of the most important steps and actions in reducing the problem of drug resistance. i also agree with what mrs mcavan, the socialist member, said, and with what mr skylakakis, the liberal member, said, and with what mr wojciechowski, the conservative member, said, about the poor conditions of production on large-scale industrial farms. the other statements you have made also build a strategy, show the way forward and are undoubtedly the basis for further action by the council, i think, and by the european commission. ladies and gentlemen! member states should strengthen the cross-sectoral mechanism for coordinating the implementation of the national strategy for the prevention and spread of antimicrobial resistant strains of bacteria, as well as the exchange of information and coordination with the european commission, the european centre for disease prevention and control and other member states. further coordination of the work of laboratories monitoring infections with drug-resistant bacteria and the creation of a platform for the exchange and processing of monitoring data is also necessary. to this end, it is necessary to establish a european network of reference laboratories for monitoring antibiotic resistance and conducting molecular typing for epidemiological purposes. ladies and gentlemen! the intensification of basic research on drug resistance, cooperation between basic and reference laboratories and continuous training of doctors and allied professionals in rational antibiotic therapy and infection control are of great importance. given the importance of the situation, action within the european union should take place at several different levels, such as: monitored intensification of infections with resistant bacteria and consumption of antibiotics, testing of reservoirs of resistance in humans and farmed animals in the natural environment, development of basic research, educational activities among those involved in medicine and the general public. in conclusion, i am confident that the danish presidency will enable a serious and in-depth discussion on this subject and that the solutions it proposes will take the form of council conclusions and be adopted at the health ministers' meeting in june 2012. we are waiting for the very important document announced by commissioner dalli, which will also be the basis for further intensive work for the good of society as a whole.
in writing. the rapid growth of bacterial resistance to antimicrobials is a real concern. this is clearly illustrated by the fact that at least 25 000 patients die every year in the eu from infections caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria and that the eu suffers additional healthcare costs and losses of around eur 1.5 billion every year as a result of infections caused by these bacteria. there is a clear need for a set of measures to address antimicrobial resistance, including strengthening the monitoring and control of the use of authorised antimicrobials in humans and animals, increasing the incentives to seek new antimicrobials and reducing the likelihood of the spread of antimicrobial resistance from animals to humans through the food chain or through direct contact. this is clearly a transnational phenomenon and, while acknowledging this concern about antimicrobial use, i would like to highlight the many shortcomings and gaps in the promotion of prudent antimicrobial use identified in the latest eurobarometer survey and encourage the european commission to examine trends in the misuse of antimicrobials and to come forward as soon as possible with a legislative package to combat antimicrobial resistance that would encourage initiatives for responsible use and adequate consumer information.
child sexual abuse is a special offence that leaves a deep imprint on the psyche of children. the legal systems of the member states provide for certain sanctions against the sexual exploitation of children, but there is a need to improve the level of safety of our children. the report by mrs angelilli is a good step in this direction. this is why legislation must be changed so that criminals from the european union are prosecuted, even if the sexual offence against a child was committed outside the european union. colleagues, organizations that fight pedophilia must be supported. support is also needed for citizens' initiatives where the justice system is inefficient, corrupt or involved in child sexual abuse offences. the pedophilia scandal in lithuania a few years ago is a case in point. high-ranking officials in the judicial system were involved in this case. the case was made public only by an organised citizens' initiative which prevented the case from being hidden. it is also important, ladies and gentlemen, to make it easier for children and their parents who are victims of sexual offences to have access to legal redress. this is very important when it comes to the poor, because it's a social group that is known to be the most vulnerable to child sexual abuse. ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that our duty in this parliament is to ensure the protection of children.
today we are discussing a very important report, which has been the subject of much work by the rapporteur and other colleagues, because child sexual abuse is in fact the most serious and brutal crime committed against children, in which the sexual abuse, the physical and psychological suffering suffered, cripples children for the rest of their lives and irreversibly affects their personality development. such crimes also include the profiteering of children as sex objects, torture, and rape. it is therefore essential that this directive should increase the penalties for such offences throughout the european union, as this would prevent individual member states from applying more lenient penalties to child rapists. it is necessary to punish the seduction of children online, to punish sex tourists and it is also essential to strengthen the protection of victims. the prevention of crime, such as education, training of officials working in this field, cooperation with relevant civil society organisations, is given a very important place in this directive. it is important to educate children and parents about the dangers of the internet. it is very important to provide psychological and other support to victims and their families. i would like to emphasise that the cooperation of the police, ngos, social service providers is important in the investigation to ensure that the children affected receive appropriate help and support. it is also essential that well-trained professionals, teachers, psychologists, social workers and lawyers are involved in this work, especially in the field of prevention and protection of victims. i agree with the colleagues who have spoken, who unanimously agree that all the member states of the european union should be obliged to remove material stored on internet servers throughout the european union. this means that we can only achieve results by working together both within the country and between the countries of the european union and in cooperation with third countries.
i thank the rapporteurs, mr i. iotova, and the ombudsman for their annual report and for the work they have done in informing european union citizens about the possibilities available to them to complain about maladministration in the european union and in encouraging citizens to exercise their rights. the european ombudsman's annual report focuses in particular on the new strategy that the ombudsman has developed for his term of office 2009-2014. i particularly appreciate the ombudsman's efforts to simplify and facilitate procedures to deal with complaints as quickly as possible, to cooperate more closely and to provide timely information of benefit to stakeholders and the public, and to improve the administrative practices of the institutions. as i see from the report, in 2010 many complaints were settled amicably, again demonstrating the ombudsman's efficiency and proper cooperation with other institutions. i agree that, in order to inform the public and to ensure that the institutions learn from their mistakes, the ombudsman publishes each year on his website a study of the follow-up given by the institutions to his observations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the ombudsman's annual report 2010. the european ombudsman is empowered to receive complaints concerning instances of maladministration in the activities of european union institutions. i support the position of the rapporteur, which endorses the ombudsman in his role of external control mechanism and welcomes the ombudsman’s initiative to regularly publish studies examining the eu institutions’ follow-up to his critical remarks while urging the institutions to work together with the ombudsman to improve their follow-up rate. it is important that, when the ombudsman presents his annual report at a meeting of the committee on petitions, not only representatives of the european commission but also of the respective administrations of the european parliament, the council and other eu institutions, agencies, services and bodies that have been the subject of an investigation, a special report, or critical remarks should be present to comment on the report and take part in the discussion. we, members of the european parliament, also call on the ombudsman to keep parliament informed of developments in his relations with the new european external action service and the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament a favourable assessment of the european ombudsman's work in 2010. the european ombudsman plays a very important role in informing citizens of the european union about the possibilities available to them to complain about maladministration by the eu institutions. for example, in the past year, the main complaints were about lack of transparency, public procurement and subsidies, and complaints from eu institution staff. it is encouraging that in 2010 many complaints were settled amicably, which once again demonstrates the ombudsman's efficiency and proper cooperation with other institutions. i appreciate the fact that the european ombudsman is trying to maintain a constant dialogue with the complainants. this is very important, as the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the role of dialogue with citizens. the ombudsman's complaints body needs to be in constant contact with people. it is also essential that the ombudsman publishes on his website each year a study of the follow-up given by the institutions to the comments and criticisms he has made.
in writing. − on 10 may 2011, the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2010 was formally presented to the president of the european parliament. i think it is necessary to draw attention to the new strategy of the ombudsman which he has drawn up for his current mandate and which forms the basis of his initiatives and activities. this strategy includes, inter alia, a regular dialogue with complainants, civil society and other stakeholders, the identification of best practices in cooperation and consultation with colleagues from the european network of ombudsmen, the enhancement of the fairness and transparency of eu procedures and the promotion of a better culture of service in the administrations of the eu institutions. i agree with the ombudsman that much remains to be done to convince officials that communicating with the ombudsman from a defensive point of view is a lost opportunity for the institutions they represent and therefore risks damaging the image of the european union as a whole. the response process needs to be substantially improved, including reducing response time (especially where time is critical) and developing solutions-oriented rather than defensive responses. i would point out that under the charter of fundamental rights, european citizens have the right to good administration.
in writing. − i welcome the european ombudsman's annual report on his activities in 2010, which provided an excellent opportunity to learn about the ombudsman's work in dealing with complaints from citizens, businesses and organisations and in promoting the highest standards of administration in the european union institutions and bodies. i believe that the new ombudsman strategy will be an effective and appropriate framework for establishing a permanent dialogue with complainants, civil society and other stakeholders and for further promoting a harmonious relationship between citizens and civil servants. i support his initiative to publish regular studies examining the follow-up of the eu institutions to the critical comments made. it is also essential that the ombudsman continue to operate as openly and transparently as possible and to make better use of the resources available to him.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children are particularly serious forms of crime as they are directed against children, the most vulnerable members of our society. these crimes cause long-term physical, psychological and social harm to victims and undermine the core values of a modern society relating to the special protection of children and trust in the relevant state institutions. therefore, i strongly support the introduction of stricter and higher penalties for the crimes mentioned. i fully support this document, which aims to establish minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the area of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and solicitation of children for sexual purposes, while also aiming to introduce provisions to strengthen the prevention of the crime and the protection of its victims. it is of great importance that we members of the european parliament have voted in favour of introducing the concept of ‘child sex tourism’ for the first time in eu legislation and have also taken strict measures against websites containing or disseminating child pornography.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament because this directive is a major step forward in ensuring the widest possible and most effective cooperation between the member states of the european union, between the eu and third countries, in the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. studies suggest that between 10 and 20% of minors in europe may have been sexually abused as children. child sexual abuse is the most serious and heinous crime committed against children. the european parliament therefore proposes tougher penalties for such crimes across the european union, as this would prevent eu member states from applying less severe penalties to child abusers. the new directive calls for criminal prosecution for acts such as soliciting children. it is proposed to criminalise sex tourists who return home and abuse children abroad. the focus is on protection, support and further prevention of crime. this directive agreed on the need to educate children and parents about the dangers of the internet and to provide psychological and other support to victims and their families. one of the main achievements of this directive is the prevention of crime through education, training of officials working in this field, cooperation with relevant civil society organisations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the european commission, with this proposal for a directive, wants to promote the fight against sexual violence against, sexual exploitation of and depiction of sexual acts involving persons under the age of 18. the proposal assumes that crime in this area will increase, that the development of modern communication systems will exacerbate the problem, and that the legislation in the eu member states is not sufficiently rigorous and consistent. this directive lays down the basic rules for the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the areas of sexual abuse of children, sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and contact with children for sexual purposes. it also introduces provisions to strengthen the prevention of those offences and the protection of the victims. it is therefore necessary to improve the situation in this area. i also support the provision to criminalise legal persons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because sexual violence is a very serious form of violence against children. in order to prevent these crimes and to create a safer environment for children in society, it is necessary to establish a mechanism to combat sexual violence against children, their sexual exploitation and child pornography and to take strong and effective measures at eu level. it should be noted that the legislation in the eu member states in this area is not sufficiently strict, and that the development of modern communication systems has led to a steady increase in the number of these crimes. in this context, it is necessary to strengthen the protection and prevention of victims at eu level. the penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. i think it is appropriate to establish the criminal liability of legal persons for these crimes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the qualification and status of third country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection. the proposal from the commission for the recast of the original directive forms part of the move towards a common european asylum policy by 2012. after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the parliament is now in a position of co-decision. the existing directive has two key elements: the grounds on which someone qualifies for refugee status or subsidiary protection, and the content of that protection. it is clear that there are considerable variations in practice between member states in their implementation of the current directive. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for clarification in the legislative framework - the directive itself - to provide a clearer framework for the implementation process. i support this proposal, which aims to approximate the two categories of protection more closely and thus to generally refer to beneficiaries of international protection. the proposal also aims to ‘approximate the entitlements of the content of protection more closely’: access to the labour market is perhaps the most significant.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the directive on beneficiaries of international protection should be further developed, which is the main objective of this report. the monitoring of the application of the directive in the member states has revealed considerable differences and, while some of the identified shortcomings can be addressed by encouraging closer cooperation between member states, there is also a need for greater clarity in the legal framework. the main amendments proposed by the european parliament are to bring the two different categories of beneficiaries of protection, which have different rights related to the nature of the protection, closer together. however, in the areas of social security, integration measures and residence permits, member states will be able to continue to apply different regimes to people falling within these two categories of protection. the amendments to the directive also aim to clarify the concept of the best interests of the child by providing a set of guiding principles. another important issue addressed by the amendments during the examination of the document concerned the protection providers. the european parliament strongly advocated that only states could be considered as providers of protection, since international organisations do not have the characteristics of a state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the important amendment proposed here is to bring the two categories of protection closer together and thus to speak in general about beneficiaries of international protection. this will allow implementing authorities to be reminded that the two categories of protection are complementary: the additional protection is no less important for persons who are at risk of serious harm if they return to their country of origin. the proposal also aims to bring closer protection-related rights, of which access to the labour market is perhaps the most important. most member states no longer differentiate between the two groups. however, these groups may continue to be treated differently in the following areas: social security, integration measures and residence permits, although some progress has been made in the latter (for holders of supplementary protection status, the extension of the permit after one year must be for at least two years, several member states currently apply such a distinction). the european parliament considered that this was important in order to integrate the individual and to ensure that he or she felt more stable.
in writing. - i voted yes. i believe that the trialogue reached the right compromise on the amendments to the directive. it was necessary to clarify certain elements of the directive in order to eliminate the duplication of provisions of the directive which has led to the divergent application of its provisions in the member states. the rapporteur has successfully achieved many of the objectives set, and i congratulate her on that. the eu has set itself the objective of creating a common area of protection and solidarity by 2012, based on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for persons granted international protection. the so-called qualifications directive is one of the five key pieces of legislation that make up the first stage of the common asylum system (ceas). while there is no doubt that effectiveness in this area can only be achieved by acting at european union level, i believe it is necessary to leave to the member states all the means to deter, investigate and defend themselves against possible abuses of the european asylum system.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the provisions of this directive will ensure a common asylum procedure and create a uniform system of protection. a high level of and consistent assistance will be provided to third-country nationals or stateless persons. in addition, these staff will be given more opportunities for vocational training and employment, integration measures and housing. the implementation of the measures provided for in the directive will create favourable conditions for the integration of the individual into society and for a greater sense of stability.
in writing. − i support this resolution as it is appropriate to refer the matter to the court of justice for an opinion on the matter in question, as the eu-australia agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data by air carriers to the australian customs and border protection agency raises legal uncertainty. in particular, the proper implementation of the agreement in both the eu and australia requires that the provisions of the agreement, in particular those relating to passenger data, comply with the requirements of the eu data protection legislation and are compatible with the provisions of the eu treaties. it is essential that the condominium agreement establishes and applies strict conditions for the transfer and use of pnr data, as well as conditions governing data protection. it is also necessary to ensure legal certainty for air carriers, passengers and data protection authorities, while guaranteeing the protection of citizens' privacy and physical security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is of the utmost importance to reach an agreement as soon as possible between the european union and australia on the issue of passenger name record (pnr) by carriers. pnr is a data collection, processing and transmission system for travel by air or other public transport where passenger data is recorded for the purpose of ticketing, reservation and registration by the carrier. the current agreement is based on australian border protection laws and one of the main objectives of this eu-australia agreement would be to align the transfer of passenger data with the personal data protection laws in force in europe. the conclusion of this agreement would not only facilitate the transfer of passenger data to carriers, but would also centralise the analysis of pnr data and ensure the protection of passenger data.
in writing. − the european union is negotiating three international agreements with australia, canada and the usa on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers. pnr data are provided by passengers and collected by air carriers and used by them in their ticketing, reservation and registration systems. given the commercial nature of the pnr, this data includes several types of information, ranging from names, addresses, passport numbers and credit card information to information on other passengers, travel itineraries and travel agents. as airlines comply with these australian requirements, problems arise with european data protection laws. in order to address these concerns, the commission has entered into negotiations with australia to establish the conditions under which access to pnr data is granted. i abstained in voting in favour of this document because we have to decide whether we are in favour of the collection of personal data, i.e. names, flights, passport details, credit card details, because there is no 100% guarantee as to what they will be used for. i believe that the need for mass collection and storage of pnr data must be demonstrated, based on factual evidence for each of the purposes for which it is published. the proportionality of the measure must be demonstrated (i.e. it must be demonstrated that the same objective cannot be achieved by less dissuasive means). the objective must be clearly and strictly defined on the basis of clear legal and reasoned definitions.
in writing. − the processing of pnr data involves the processing of personal data, which raises serious questions about the fundamental rights to privacy and the protection of personal data. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the comprehensive storage and processing of pnr data for all passengers ensures high data protection safeguards and respect for the privacy of eu citizens in accordance with the relevant eu rules. in this context, both existing and future eu agreements require legal certainty and objective factual evidence to support the assertion that the storage and processing of pnr data is necessary and proportionate. in addition, appropriate legal safeguards must be included, including provisions on the use of pnr data for law enforcement and security purposes only and the prevention of the use of data for data mining and classification.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution, which encourages the eu to continue to support the efforts aimed at accelerating democratic, economic and social reforms in egypt. we, members of the european parliament, strongly condemn the killing of protestors in egypt and welcome efforts by egyptian authorities to identify the perpetrators of the attacks on christian communities, while stressing the importance of an independent investigation by an independent civil judiciary. we call on the egyptian authorities to ensure full respect for all fundamental rights, including freedom of association, peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, conscience and thought for all citizens in egypt. we believe that a new constitution should explicitly provide for the protection of all fundamental rights. in regards to syria we express our deepest concern regarding the human rights violations perpetrated by the syrian authorities and reiterate our call on president bashar al-assad and his regime to relinquish power immediately and allow a democratic transition to take place in syria. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in syria is of great importance and we welcome the commitment of the eu to continue to press for strong un action to increase international pressure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because of concerns about the situation of christians in syria, in particular their safety. there are actions that promote conflict between religious groups that are condemned. the current and future syrian authorities must ensure the reliable and effective protection of the christian community. an independent, transparent and effective investigation into the killings, arrests, unauthorised detentions, alleged enforced disappearances and torture by the syrian security forces is necessary to ensure that those responsible are held accountable by the international community. i also agree and believe that the new constitution should explicitly guarantee the protection of all fundamental rights, including freedom of association, peaceful assembly and expression, and freedom of religion, conscience and thought, and the protection of minorities in egypt. the egyptian authorities must ensure that any constitutional provision is inclusive and does not leave room for discrimination against any individual in egyptian society.
in writing. − the continued violence against critics of the regime in syria and the growing tensions in egypt are of great concern. the people's quest for freedom from tyranny and democracy is above all else and must not be lost in the struggle for control of power. i believe that the elections in egypt, which will begin on november 28th, will be one of the turning points that will decide which way the egyptian state will develop - whether towards division and radicalization or towards democracy and respect for human rights. however, it is difficult to expect free and democratic elections, as they will take place under a state of emergency, with restrictions on freedom of the media and assembly, mass arrests of civilians and trials in military courts, the erosion of women's rights, and the deepening of division and radicalisation. we can only rejoice that it has been decided to investigate the events that led to the deaths of peaceful coptic protesters. the perpetrators must be identified and brought to justice, as is the duty of the rule of law. but this is not enough the interim egyptian authorities must provide the political and civil society with the conditions necessary to prepare for a marathon of peaceful and calm elections, and be ready to hand over power to representatives elected in democratic and free elections recognised by the international community.
in writing. - i support this resolution because of the extremely difficult situation facing christians in egypt and syria, two muslim-majority countries currently undergoing major political and social changes. it is therefore vital that we ensure that christian congregations are protected in a reliable and effective way. it is important to start a process of serious democratic reforms in syria as a matter of urgency, as the regime's massive human rights violations in suppressing civil unrest continue unabated. in addition, the use of violence against peaceful protesters must be prevented. urgent democratic, economic and social reforms are also needed in egypt to prevent the use of disproportionate force by the security forces against the peaceful population, in particular coptic christians, and to ensure the protection of all fundamental human rights.
in writing. − i fully support this resolution, which looks forward to a deepening of relations between the eu and ukraine, provided that all criteria, including respect for the principles of democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, are met by ukraine. however we, as members of the european parliament, express deep concern that the tymoshenko trial is at odds with the ukraine government's proclaimed commitment to democracy and european values, and are concerned at the continued detention of the former minister of the interior, yuri lutsenko. we insist that all judicial proceedings against former and current senior government officials should be conducted in accordance with european standards of fairness, impartiality, transparency and independence; we believe that failure to review yulia tymoshenko’s conviction will jeopardise the conclusion of the association agreement and its ratification, while pushing the country further away from the realisation of its european perspective, and we stress that the strengthening of the rule of law and internal reform, including a credible fight against corruption, are essential for the conclusion and ratification of the association agreement and the deepening of eu-ukraine relations.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it is considered that strengthening eu-ukraine relations and providing ukraine with an eu accession perspective is of paramount importance and in the interests of both parties. ukraine's european aspirations are recognised, provided that all criteria are met, including respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. i believe that the ukrainian government must consistently uphold its stated commitment to democracy and european values. all trials of former and current senior government officials must be conducted in accordance with european standards of fairness, impartiality, transparency and independence. there are some worrying signs of the ongoing decline of democratic freedoms and the possible use of state institutions as narrow group objectives and tools of political revenge. the strengthening of the rule of law and the credible fight against corruption are important not only for the conclusion of the association agreement, its ratification and the strengthening of eu-ukraine relations in general, but also for the consolidation of democracy in ukraine. the authorities must take all necessary measures to protect these essential aspects of a democratic society and refrain from any attempt to control, directly or indirectly, the content of the reports of national media outlets. i am pleased that agreement has been reached on a comprehensive and wide-ranging free trade agreement. i believe that this agreement is a solid basis for concluding the negotiations on an association agreement between the european union and ukraine.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support ukraine's process of rapprochement with the european union and the european reforms in the country. the agreement on a comprehensive and enhanced free trade agreement is welcome, but it is disappointing that the ukrainian leadership has not taken the eu's signals of concern seriously and has made further progress more difficult by its own actions in the recent past. the ukrainian leadership must understand that the european union is not only an economic union but also a union of values, and that the pursuit of closer relations with it, and in particular the implementation of the european perspective, through economic relations alone will not bring the desired results. i therefore call on ukraine to strengthen the rule of law and to reform the legal framework in line with the recommendations of the venice commission.
in writing. − i support this resolution because in order to strengthen and expand eu-ukraine relations with a view to its accession to the eu, we must be sure that the country is guaranteed respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. it is also essential that all judicial proceedings in ukraine comply with the principles of fairness, transparency, impartiality and independence. ukraine should unconditionally respect the rules of the democratic game. the agreement on a comprehensive and comprehensive free trade agreement is welcome. it should be noted that this agreement provides a solid basis for the conclusion of the negotiations on an eu-ukraine association agreement. however, in order to accelerate the process of ukraine's approximation to the eu, ukraine must make every effort to ensure that the processes within the country are conducted in strict compliance with the requirements of the rule of law and in a more effective way in the fight against corruption.
in writing. − the decision of the ukrainian court to sentence former prime minister tymoshenko to seven years in prison has disappointed the european union. these steps are reminiscent of the authoritarian style of belarusian president alexander lukashenko in dealing with political opponents. i agree with the eu's assessment that the trial of tymoshenko in ukraine did not meet international standards of fairness, transparency and independent judicial process. this process has dealt a severe blow to ukraine-eu relations, which are particularly sensitive now that the association agreement negotiations are being finalised. the improvement in relations will also depend on the outcome of events involving the former prime minister. in ukraine, it is necessary to accelerate reforms of the criminal code and the legal space. i voted in favour of this resolution also because i support the rapporteur's call not to consider the tymoshenko case as a major obstacle to ukraine's integration into europe. we call for the signing of the eu-ukraine association and free trade area agreement in december to be postponed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is necessary to develop new and better antimicrobials and at the same time to improve the conservation of existing antibiotic stocks. each year, around 25 000 patients die in the european union from diseases caused by drug-resistant microorganisms, resulting in at least eur 1.5 billion in additional healthcare costs. people take antimicrobials (medicines that inhibit the growth and reproduction of microorganisms) because they can kill bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms, but improper and irrational use of these drugs kills vital human cells and suppresses the resistance of the immune system. indeed, the use of antimicrobials in food-producing animals and their feedingstuffs is a major factor in the spread of these substances through food, which may weaken the antibacterial effects of medicinal products used in the future. antimicrobial resistance is a growing public health threat not only in europe but also worldwide.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it is a matter of concern that, despite the actions taken at european and international level, antimicrobial resistance is a growing public health threat in europe and worldwide. i believe that the fight against antimicrobial resistance in human medicines needs to be stepped up, focusing on the following priorities in order of importance: prudent use of antimicrobials in humans and animals, ensuring that they are used only for effective treatment of diseases, with appropriate doses, intervals and duration; monitoring and control of antimicrobial resistance; the need for research and development of new antimicrobials and their substitutes; and links with measures to combat antimicrobial resistance in veterinary medicines, animal feed and plant feed. the commission is invited to propose without delay a legislative framework to combat amr by promoting initiatives on responsible use and supporting the dissemination of such initiatives and information.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the world is facing an increase in antimicrobial resistance, which affects not only humans but also animals. this is a consequence of frequent or inappropriate use of antibiotics and is a very serious problem requiring a coordinated solution at eu level. only by working together can we prevent infections from spreading and reduce the need for antibiotics. the pharmaceutical innovation sector is currently dominated by a patent-oriented r&d model, which has led to market failures and a decline in r&d. in this context, there is a need for eu-wide innovation incentive premiums or other measures to boost investment in research. we also need to ensure that antimicrobials are used strictly and only when necessary. the increasing antimicrobial resistance is leading to a decline in the effectiveness of antimicrobial treatment, increased morbidity and mortality, and rising healthcare costs. in order to achieve the objectives effectively and as rapidly as possible, an integrated system for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance and its use in europe should be established to prevent threats to human health.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i share the concern about the rise in antimicrobial resistance in pathogens. the misuse, unnecessary and often ineffective use of antimicrobials and antibiotics in human or animal health care leads to the emergence of antimicrobial resistant bacteria. this is how we're building a time bomb that can take us back to a time before antibiotics. at that time, a simple cold could have resulted in death. i support the call for increased funding for the development of new antibiotics. but the most important thing is to educate the public about the problems that arise from the misuse of antimicrobials at the wrong time and for the wrong purpose. i would particularly urge a change in the established practice in animal husbandry, where antibiotics are now used as a preventive measure rather than a therapeutic one. the prevention of disease is better achieved by improving animal housing conditions rather than by feeding animals medicines. certain types of antimicrobials for which no possible substitute has yet been identified should be completely banned for use in animal husbandry.
on behalf of the s&d group i support my colleagues who have said that the greed for profit and the immoral arms trade have allowed undemocratic regimes to gain a foothold in the arab world, with western help. they're slowly getting better. for eight months, protesters in bahrain have been demanding change. clashes during the demonstrations have claimed 40 lives, with detainees suffering physical violence. the bahraini government must look around and learn from the lessons of the arab spring. it is necessary to release the demonstrators who are being tortured in prisons, to provide them with proper medical care, to rehabilitate them. we call for the dismissal of the charges against the doctors who treated the protesters injured during the demonstrations.
unfortunately, the deliberations and condemnations in this and other important halls have done nothing to stop the terror machine that has been ravaging the people for six months and claiming nearly 3,000 lives. but i hope that the attention of the european parliament to this particular case and to a woman who is certainly so famous will have an impact. the arrest of rafah nached, a doctor, psychoanalyst and researcher, on a fabricated pretext has caused a great deal of reaction and protest. especially since she's sick and in terrible conditions. her release would be a victory for all of us and would bring change in syria closer.
in writing. with the increasing movement of highly qualified people and workers within the european union, it is essential to ensure that workers' professional skills are recognised and to reduce as far as possible the barriers to access to skilled employment on the labour market. it is also necessary to establish as soon as possible an appropriate system for the recognition of professional qualifications in the european union so that highly qualified workers, trained professionals, are not forced to work in unskilled jobs, otherwise such workers lose their working skills, experience and qualifications over time. i would like to draw attention to the need to improve the dialogue, the exchange of information on specific professions and cooperation between the competent authorities and the national information centres, both at national and at the level of all eu member states. the european commission should support networks of competent authorities and professional organisations for the mobile professions in order to exchange common information on national procedures and training requirements, share best practices and explore the possibility of closer cooperation, such as the development of common platforms. member states should, in turn, improve the work of public authorities by providing information on both workers' rights and procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications, in order to ensure workers' rights and prevent exploitation of workers.
i thank the rapporteur, mr westphal, for his excellent report and for the constructive work we have done together. i myself have been a shadow speaker on this subject. europe's population is ageing, and its population growth rates are among the lowest in the world. the commission stresses the importance of demographic change. this is a threat, of course, but it's also an opportunity. for the 2007-13 programming period, member states plan to spend 8,5% of the structural funds in implementing their operational programmes. regional policy is therefore a key instrument for combating the effects of demographic change. coordination at all levels is therefore necessary to achieve more flexible structural support policies, and greater involvement of the local level, the local communities, in decision-making is needed. demographic change is a complex issue, and it is equally important to balance the needs of children, young families and older people. the report focuses more on firefighting techniques, but the preventive measures mentioned must also be effectively implemented. and yet in the future, we will be forced to rethink pension systems that were designed and worked effectively when there were slightly different demographic trends.
in writing. the world's population has just passed seven billion. paradoxically, despite the world's increase in births, europe is aging, and the name old continent is becoming painfully literal. europe's population decline would be even more pronounced if it were not for migration - more people settle in the union than leave it, and this is an illusory sense of security, because too few native europeans are born, too few to ensure demographic security and reverse the trend of our ageing society. the question is, why is this a european problem, and can it be solved? the ageing of europe should not be explained solely by the increase in the average life expectancy of europeans, which is a satisfying fact. however, the main problem is the dramatic decline in the birth rate. the problem is not going to be solved by an influx of immigrants. the point is the departure of europe from christian values after world war ii, especially those promoting the family. instead of motherhood and fatherhood, family life has been destroyed over the years by promoting so-called free unions, abortion on demand, and in some lands even euthanasia. today we are reaping the toxic fruits of this policy: declining birth rates, ageing societies and the collapse of europe's pension systems. to reverse this worrying trend towards the extinction of europe, we must return to the values of christian europe and firmly support the family.
i thank the rapporteur and the commission for the documents they have submitted, but i would also like to point out once again that it is not normal for people to work for such a low wage that they cannot survive and end up in poverty. the question therefore arises as to whether the member states are unwilling or unable to fix at least an appropriate minimum wage. i therefore call on the commissioner to take a decision as soon as possible on a minimum income common to the whole of the european union. i also strongly support the idea put forward in the report that member states should set minimum pensions at an appropriate level to avoid people who have worked their whole lives falling into poverty in old age. i also point out that women are actually more likely to live in poverty, and that we should make decisions as soon as possible about family care and nursing, because in this case women very often end up in poverty because they cannot work.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal does not introduce any substantive amendments other than those explicitly identified as such in this proposal and because, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of previous legislation and the amendments referred to, the proposal seeks only to codify the existing legislation without changing its substance.
in writing. − i support this proposal, which aims only to codify existing legislation without changing its substance. i believe that it is appropriate to recast the directive in the light of the new amendments for the sake of legal clarity. furthermore, in cases where substantial amendments beyond simple codification are required on an operational basis, the commission may decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether to present a new version of the proposal or to submit a separate amendment proposal without withdrawing the proposal for codification and to include it in the proposal for codification once the substantial amendment has been adopted. this will make the legislative process more flexible and more operational. it should be noted that national provisions on the raising and maintenance of capital, the increase or reduction of capital in public limited liability companies must be harmonised in order to ensure at least equivalent protection for shareholders and creditors.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal as the eu, and in particular the european parliament, has been discussing for some time the accession of the european union to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea. the convention itself was drawn up in 1974 and its main issues are the safety of passenger ships and the rights of passengers. however, it was considered that the convention did not sufficiently regulate certain important issues, including the nature and limits of the liability of carriers and minimum insurance requirements. the committee on legal affairs shall be responsible, inter alia, for the interpretation and application of union law and for ensuring that union acts are in conformity with the provisions of primary law, in particular in the choice of legal basis, the interpretation and application of provisions of international law of relevance to the union, and the instruments of judicial and administrative cooperation in civil matters. the committee on legal affairs is responsible for preparing a draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on this decision. other articles of the athens convention protocol relate to amendments to the athens convention in the areas of carrier's liability, compulsory insurance, limited liability for death and personal injury or for loss of or damage to luggage or vehicles, and accounting and conversion. all these issues fall within the field of transport.
in writing. − i approve and support the accession of the european union to the draft 2002 protocol to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, 1974, with the exception of articles 10 and 11 thereof. it should be noted that in order to ensure adequate safety of passenger ships and the rights of passengers, it is essential that appropriate limits of liability be imposed on carriers, in particular in cases of fault or negligence. i believe that these objectives can only be achieved if the eu as a whole sets out the same level of responsibility and its nature in international and national transport. it is welcome that agreement has finally been reached and that a regulation has been adopted, giving the eu the exclusive right to accede to the athens convention when a specific issue falls within the scope of the regulation. i also believe that it is appropriate to leave it to the individual member states to decide for themselves on matters not covered by the
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because most of the articles of the athens convention protocol are amendments to the athens convention relating to the civil liability of the carrier, to compulsory insurance, to the limitation of civil liability in cases of death and personal injury or loss or damage to luggage and vehicles, and to accounting and recalculation. all these issues are transport-related and the transport committee is therefore responsible for the drafting of a european parliament legislative resolution on the decision relating to these articles.
in writing. − i have given my consent to the conclusion of this agreement, which replaces all bilateral agreements and creates an airspace between the european union and jordan and the euro-mediterranean countries. this agreement establishes uniform standards for air carriers in all 27 member states of the european union and provides for their use. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with jordan was signed on the basis of the agreements with ryanair and ams, which were signed on the basis of the agreements with ryanair and ams.
in writing. − currently, air services between the eu and jordan are provided under bilateral agreements between individual member states and jordan. the european commission has recently negotiated a comprehensive and much more ambitious agreement, replacing all bilateral agreements and creating a euro-mediterranean airspace between the eu and jordan. this agreement establishes uniform standards for air carriers in all 27 member states of the union and allows these carriers to operate them, irrespective of their country of origin. accordingly, eu air carriers will be able to provide air services between all points in the eu and jordan, which have been subject to various conditions until now. i have endorsed this document as the conclusion of a euro-mediterranean aviation agreement with jordan has long been an eu priority and an important step in the development of the european neighbourhood policy. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with jordan was signed on the basis of the agreements with ryanair and ams, which were signed on the basis of the agreements with ryanair and ams.
in writing. - i voted to make a deal. this is one of the cases where an eu agreement replacing bilateral agreements between eu member states and a third country is more ambitious and more beneficial, as it sets common standards for air carriers, harmonises the conditions of service and operation, which have been different so far, and prevents potential discrimination. the market will be gradually opened on a reciprocal basis, contributing to the establishment of a free trade area between jordan and the eu. the agreement will increase the efficiency of transport, facilitate personal contacts between citizens, have a positive impact on economic development and promote technical cooperation. the agreement should result in an increase of 54000 passengers in the first year of the actual opening of the market and a benefit to consumers of up to eur 30 million. this is one step towards the eu's long-term objective of establishing a common aviation area with all mediterranean partners and is in line with the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of a comprehensive eu-jordan agreement aimed at creating a common aviation space between the eu and the euro-mediterranean countries of jordan. in particular, eu air carriers will be subject to uniform standards and favourable and liberal conditions will be created for the provision of competitive services in open markets. the entry into force of this agreement will also enhance safety and security in air transport and will result in mutual benefits for consumers, air carriers, employees and the community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement. this agreement will govern the relations between the eu, its 27 member states and georgia in the field of aviation. the aim of the agreement is to ensure the progressive establishment of a common eu-georgia aviation area. the new agreement is to replace the bilateral agreements on hospital services which governed the services provided by both parties. these measures are taken in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy, which also aims at creating a common aviation space between the eu and its neighbouring countries. i support the rapporteur's position that the application of the existing safety, security and air traffic management rules to georgia opens up the markets of both countries and creates non-discriminatory conditions of participation for all operators. the commission notes that the air carrier has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in georgia. the opening up of bilateral markets will undoubtedly lead to the emergence of new market entrants, the use of hitherto underused airports and the consolidation of eu air carriers. the commission estimates that the gradual establishment of the eu-georgia common aviation area will increase the number of passengers by 25 000 in the first year and the benefit to consumers will be around eur 17 million.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement as it is an international agreement between the eu, its 27 member states and georgia on the regulation of relations in the field of aviation. the aim of the agreement is to ensure the progressive establishment of a common eu-georgia aviation space. the bilateral agreements that governed the provision of services between the two countries will be replaced by bilateral agreements that governed the provision of services between the two countries. these measures are taken in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy, which also aims at creating a common aviation space between the eu and its neighbouring countries. the eu internal aviation market rules and regulations will apply to georgia and will create a level playing field for all eu and georgian air carriers. the application of the existing safety, security and air traffic management rules to georgia opens up the markets of both countries and creates non-discriminatory conditions for participation for all operators. the commission notes that the air carrier has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in georgia. i believe that the opening up of bilateral markets will lead to the emergence of new market entrants, the use of hitherto underused airports and the strengthening of eu air carriers. the commission estimates that the gradual establishment of the eu-georgia common aviation area will increase the number of passengers by 25 000 in the first year and the benefit to consumers will be around eur 17 million.
in writing. - i voted to make a deal. this will allow for the creation of a common eu-georgia aviation area, with georgia gradually implementing high standards in aviation regulation and safety, including environmental protection. the commission has also taken steps to establish a common aviation area with the eu's eastern neighbours. the agreement is expected to increase passenger numbers by 25 000 in the first year and to benefit consumers by around eur 17 million. the agreement will increase the efficiency of transport, facilitate personal contacts between citizens, have a positive impact on economic development and promote technical cooperation. the common aviation area agreements, which create opportunities for mutual and full participation in this market, are an example and an incentive for further economic integration between the partner countries and the eu. i hope that progress will be made as quickly as possible on the conclusion of agreements with moldova, ukraine and the rest of the eastern caucasus to enable these eastern partnership countries to fully integrate into the european single aviation area.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this eu-georgia agreement on a common aviation area, as it is important not only in the field of transport but also creates a stronger framework for cooperation in the field of neighbourhood policy. it should be noted that this agreement will open markets and create equal, non-discriminatory operating conditions for carriers from both countries and remove existing barriers. the airlines of europe and georgia will thus be able to provide air services on equal terms and without any restrictions. i believe that this agreement will not only open up new opportunities and strengthen the position of carriers, but will also allow full use of airport infrastructure, as initial estimates suggest a significant increase in passenger and cargo numbers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the temporary suspension of autonomous common customs tariff duties on certain industrial products imported into the canary islands. the kingdom of spain has submitted a request to the european commission, on behalf of the authorities of the autonomous community of the canary islands, to suspend the application of the common customs tariff to certain industrial goods imported into the canary islands in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to ensure more stable employment in these outermost regions of the union. however, in order to ensure that imports of goods raw materials, parts, components or duty-free means of production do not distort competition, they will be subject to end-use control. this will ensure that they are used only by local businesses operating on the islands. the local companies operating on the islands will have to use the production facilities for at least two years before they can sell them freely to companies operating elsewhere in the union. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposed suspension of customs duties would make it easier for the canary islands' smes and farmers to invest and create jobs in one of the outermost regions of the union.
in writing. − the kingdom of spain has requested, on behalf of the autonomous community of the canary islands, the temporary suspension of the application of the common customs tariff to certain industrial goods imported into the canary islands in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to ensure more stable employment in these outermost regions of the union. to ensure that imports of goods raw materials, parts, components or non-tariffed means of production do not distort competition, they will be subject to end-use control. this will ensure that they are used only by local businesses operating on the islands. the local companies operating on the islands will have to use the production facilities for at least two years before they can sell them freely to companies operating elsewhere in the union. in addition, those wishing to benefit from the temporary exemption will have to use the raw materials, parts and components for the processing and preservation of the industry in the canary islands. it is not possible to carry out an impact assessment of these measures as they are part of a number of other measures to address the specific problems of these islands. however, these measures will have an impact on the union's own resources and revenue. i have endorsed this document because, in the context of the current economic downturn, it is considered that the need for concrete measures to stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment in the medium term is compatible with the european economic recovery plan and the measures needed to address the specific problems of the outermost regions of the union.
in writing. − i have approved this programme because it is related to research in nuclear fusion, nuclear fission and radiation safety. its main objective is to ensure that eu-funded research in these areas is continued for another two years, building on the success of the 2007-2011 activities. to this end, the proposal further describes the scope of the research and development activities. this specific programme of indirect actions sets out the following two thematic priorities, namely fusion energy research, nuclear fission and radiation protection. the activities under the first thematic priority shall aim at the development of safe, sustainable, environmentally friendly and economically viable prototypes of power reactors, the development of the necessary knowledge base and the implementation of the iter project as a key step. the objectives of the activities under the second thematic priority are to establish a sound scientific and technical basis to accelerate practical improvements in the management of safer long-lived radioactive waste, to achieve a safer, more resource-efficient and economically efficient use of nuclear energy in particular, and to ensure a robust and socially acceptable system for the protection of people and the environment from ionising radiation. i think that in terms of energy independence, security, resource efficiency, these are very important areas.
in writing. − as this year's events in japan show, nuclear safety remains a highly topical issue both within and outside the european union. this is particularly important in lithuania, where two nuclear power plants are planned to be built near its borders. in the event of an accident, the entire capital of vilnius eu member state would have to be evacuated. the potential of eu researchers in this field is very high. i therefore support in particular the position to strengthen research in the field of radiation protection. this knowledge will help to set the highest standards in radiation safety and to better protect against the adverse effects of radiation on the environment and human health.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as it is of the utmost importance to ensure that the scientific research on nuclear fusion, nuclear fission and radiation safety continues to be carried out successfully. furthermore, in the light of the successful performance, it is necessary to ensure that the structure and implementation of the new framework programme are based on the principles of simplicity, stability, transparency, legal clarity, consistency, progress and trust. i believe that only by working together can we ensure that nuclear energy is used in a safer, more economically efficient and more resource-efficient way, and that we have a robust and socially acceptable system for protecting people and the environment from ionising radiation. particular attention should be paid to contractual terms that reduce the risk of default and aim at a gradual redistribution of risks and costs.
in writing. − the persisting disparities between national insolvency laws create difficulties for companies with cross-border activities and are an obstacle to a successful restructuring of insolvent companies am fully in favour of this report which identifies areas in national insolvency laws that are accessible and eligible for harmonization and issues that should be revised in the insolvency regulation. i am in favour of this report which invites the commission to incorporate the following recommendations into future legislative proposals on an eu corporate insolvency framework: harmonise the opening of insolvency proceedings, revise the insolvency regulation with regard to its scope and certain definitions ( e.g. ‘centre of main interest’, ‘establishment’ in the context of secondary proceedings) and make the communication between the relevant courts obligatory, improve the cooperation of liquidators and cooperation in general on administrative level in cases where enterprises that are part of a group of companies become insolvent and create of an eu registry for insolvency case.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that we need to create the best possible legal environment for business and to eliminate the shortcomings that are hampering competitiveness in the european union. indeed, differences in national insolvency laws create difficulties for companies operating in several countries and may hinder the successful restructuring of insolvent companies. in this document, the european parliament sets out its recommendations on areas of insolvency law that could be harmonised at eu level and which could help to prepare future legislative initiatives in this area. the parliament therefore proposes to harmonise certain aspects of the opening of insolvency proceedings, including the procedure for the lodging of claims, the harmonisation of the aspects of actions for annulment, the qualification and working conditions of liquidators and the drawing up of restructuring plans. the european parliament also proposed the creation of an eu insolvency register listing all insolvency cases opened cross-border and making the transmission of data to the courts mandatory.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because differences in national insolvency laws create competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for companies operating in several countries and can hinder the successful restructuring of insolvent companies. these discrepancies allow for the search for a more favourable legal position. i believe that the internal market would benefit from a level playing field for all businesses and from no distortion of competition. the commission is therefore invited to submit to parliament one or more legislative proposals on the eu corporate insolvency legal framework in accordance with the detailed guidelines set out in the annex to this proposal, in order to ensure a level playing field, on the basis of a detailed analysis of all possible alternatives.
in writing. - i support this resolution because the differences in national rules place many firms in an unequal competitive position and make it difficult for them to operate. in addition, the restructuring of insolvent companies is made more difficult. it should be noted that a common and effective insolvency system is a very important market economy instrument. it not only helps to preserve business and production capacity, but also promotes change, redistribution of operational resources and plays a crucial role in credit and investment. i therefore believe that the insolvency system should function as a common tool in the european crisis management system. in this context, it is necessary to harmonise at eu level the conditions under which insolvency proceedings and claims may be brought, as well as certain aspects of actions for annulment and other claims. only through these measures will an effective competitive environment be created for business operators and the possibility be created for them to survive in the face of temporary financial difficulties.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report which depicts how demographic change clearly impacts the provision of social infrastructure, such as pension systems, nursing care and healthcare and calls for proactive measures to prevent its negative consequences. demographic change is producing new challenges in many regions of the eu. as demographic change can bring both risks and opportunities, it is imperative that each region has its own strategy. as such members call on the commission to include demographic change as a horizontal objective in the future cohesion policy and also encourages the regions to use structural funds to help address demographic challenges and to improve access to social and administrative services. as europe will, for demographic reasons, remain dependent on migration for skilled labour, this report calls for member states to recognise the integration of migrants as a strategically important policy measure. it also believes that the regions should use esf funds in a decisive manner to combat youth unemployment by supporting training measures for young people, while continuing support to raise the female employment rate. lastly, the report considers that demographic developments in the regions should be statistically measured, so that data can be evaluated at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because demographic change will bring new challenges for many regions of the european union. not all eu regions have yet realised the threat of demographic change, but they must now realise that each region and city needs its own strategy. in principle, such strategies are the responsibility of the member states, but the regions themselves must also take the initiative, and at the same time they must develop guidelines and outline future prospects. demographic change, in particular population ageing, has an undeniable impact on the provision of social infrastructure services such as pension systems, care and healthcare, and regional authorities need to respond to the changing needs of different population groups. moreover, the impact of demographic change varies widely across regions, depending on whether it is rapid or slow, whether people are migrating to or from a region, and therefore requires different strategic adaptation plans for regions and therefore needs to be managed in a coordinated manner by all eu, national and regional authorities. it should also be noted that regions with declining populations, especially in rural areas, define quality of life differently from regions with growing populations, and therefore require different strategic support plans for the regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the european union is undergoing demographic change and one of the main challenges for the future is to find a way to deal with its consequences. europe is an ageing society, with the oldest population and the lowest population growth rates in the world. in most member states, fertility rates are below the level needed to maintain the current population, and in some cases even fall further, and life expectancy is increasing. demographic change is rightly seen as the major trend of the 21st century, which will fundamentally change the political, social, societal and economic landscape in europe. the problem is not demographic change itself, but the delay in responding to it by politicians and society. the multifaceted demographic challenges are primarily the responsibility of the member states, but the regions must also play an active role in this area and therefore need to be supported at european level. the erdf and the esf can contribute to addressing the challenges posed by demographic change in the eu, namely the increase in the number of older people and the decline in the number of young people. if we can shape demographic change and find the right responses not only at european, but also at national and regional levels, it will be an opportunity for europe, not a threat.
in writing. − i support this resolution because europe is currently undergoing demographic changes of unprecedented scale and with certain risks, especially in cohesion policy. in this context, i believe that structural policy reforms must be actively implemented at eu level. in particular, the allocation of eu structural funds should take account of the level of development of each region and other demographic indicators. the erdf and esf must provide more funding for urban and infrastructure development. it should be noted that the commission has a special role to play in this area, as it must ensure that the effects of demographic change are managed in an effective and coordinated manner. in addition, in view of the increasing problem of ageing populations, pension systems need to be strengthened, generational cohesion promoted and high quality care and nursing at home ensured.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the report addresses demographic issues, but more attention should be paid to those challenges that affect rural and urban areas. one third of lithuania's population lives in rural areas. at the same time, young people are emigrating and rural populations are ageing - one in four rural residents is over 60. the statistics are alarming. the rural birth rate is 30% higher than in the cities, but this percentage is decreasing every year, and the mortality rate in rural areas is very high (75% higher than in the cities). this has a negative impact on natural population growth. demographic change also highlights differences in the quality of life of those living in rural areas and those living in cities. children, farmers and the elderly are the most affected by demographic change in lithuania. lithuanian rural residents are at risk of poverty three times more often than those living in large cities. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu structural funds should be better adapted to the challenges of demographic change. for example, low-interest loans from the erdf would greatly help the rural poor in lithuania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, to improve the conditions under which it operates, particularly in financial markets, and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection, a common framework for the regulation of requirements and powers relating to the sale of debt securities and credit default swaps should be established and better coordination and consistency between member states should be ensured. it is therefore proposed to provide for provisions in the form of a legal regulation to ensure that provisions directly imposing obligations on private parties to provide and disclose information on net short positions in relation to certain instruments and not to agree to sell securities on borrowing are applied uniformly throughout the european union. the regulation is also necessary to empower the authority to coordinate the measures taken by the competent authorities or to take those measures itself.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report, which welcomes the commission proposal to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops, in line with current user and market requirements. the report stresses the objective of achieving simplification and recognises the efforts made by the commission to reduce the administrative burden on respondents and ensure that statistical data on permanent crops provide a reliable basis for taking judicious decisions in relation to production and the european market. the report indicates that the administrative burden may be reduced by amending the precision requirements, excluding from the scope of the provisions all small holdings of less than 0.2 hectares, and no longer requiring a breakdown by nuts 3 region for certain data on vines for purposes other than the production of table grapes. with regard to the delegation of power to the commission to amend certain aspects of this regulation through delegated acts, the rapporteur stresses that the principles laid down in parliament’s resolution of 5 may 2010 on the power of legislative delegation (2010/2021(ini)) must be strictly applied.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update, simplify and improve the current european system of multicultural statistics and to make it more responsive to the real needs of users. in view of the current situation of farms, i believe that it is necessary, first of all, to reduce the administrative burden on them. it is welcome that special attention has been paid to small farms and that their conditions of operation have been facilitated by the abolition of the obligation to provide statistics on certain perennial crops.
in writing. − under the euratom treaty, research programmes may not exceed five years. the current euratom seventh framework programme (2007-2011), which consists of two specific programmes (one for indirect actions and one for direct actions of the jrc), will run until the end of 2011. the proposal for a council decision extending the specific programme of direct actions for 2012-13 as requested is attached to this memorandum. i have endorsed this document because the main objective is to ensure that eu-funded research in these areas continues for another two years after the end of the 2007-2011 programme period. to this end, the proposal sets out in detail the objectives of research and technological development. this specific programme of direct actions identifies three thematic priorities: nuclear waste management, environmental impact and basic knowledge, nuclear safety and nuclear security control measures and nuclear security. i therefore believe that it is necessary to continue this programme.
in writing. − as this year's events in japan show, nuclear safety remains a highly topical issue both within and outside the european union. the potential of eu researchers in this field is very high. i therefore support the position to strengthen research in nuclear safety, nuclear waste management and other related areas. this knowledge will help to establish the highest standards of nuclear safety, not only in the eu but also in nuclear facilities located near its borders.
in writing. − i support this resolution, since the role of the joint research centre in the implementation of the european atomic energy community's overall programme of nuclear research and training activities is of particular importance. particular attention and funding should continue to be devoted to the development of knowledge related to nuclear waste management, its environmental impact, nuclear safety, as well as nuclear safety and control. it should be noted that the centre should contribute more actively to the monitoring of the quality and effectiveness of training and to the coordination of existing educational programmes. in addition, in view of the increasing number of decommissioning events and the associated risks, the jrc needs to strengthen its expertise in this area and to integrate as soon as possible into its programmes the key aspects of research and expert training on decommissioning of nuclear reactors.
in writing. − i have agreed to this document as the rules of participation lay down the rights and obligations of legal entities wishing to participate in the framework programme and the principles for the use and dissemination of the results of the work of those legal entities. the euratom framework programme 2012-2013 shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation, its implementing rules and the state aid rules, in particular the rules on state aid for research and technological development.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as there must be detailed and strict rules at eu level which clearly define the rights and obligations of the companies, research centres and universities participating in the joint programme in the indirect actions, as well as the principles for the use and dissemination of their work. i believe that more attention and substantially more funding should be given to initiatives that complement basic nuclear research, especially those related to investment in human capital. in this context, it is welcome that priority support is envisaged for experiments aimed at optimising the operation of iter and contributing to the demo programmes.
in writing. − professional mobility is a key factor for economic development and sustainable economic recovery. however, one of the main reasons for difficulties in relation to the recognition of professional qualifications is a lack of confidence in the criteria used for accreditation and granting academic qualifications in the country of origin. so there is an urgent need to establish automatic recognition measures by removing prejudice and formal national obstacles to recognition. while the automatic recognition procedure has been successful, the recognition process under the general system based on professional experience is excessively time-consuming both for the competent authorities and for professionals. i am in favour of this report, which calls for simplification, a reduction in the duration of procedures through the use of modern communication technologies, the centralisation of information and the clarification of definitions. it also urges that the classification of economic activities be upgraded in line with scientific and technical developments, and that public health and safety be improved through the introduction of a proactive alert mechanism and through restrictions on the principle of partial access in relation to health professions. it underlines the importance of language skills, of integrating professionals and of injecting confidence into the system through the mandatory introduction of the internal market information (imi) system, and it calls for the introduction of a voluntary professional card.
in writing. − the changing demographic situation will make the mobility of professionals in the european union increasingly important. the mobility of professionals is a key factor in restoring economic development and a sustainable economy. based on the findings of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop), the demand for highly qualified workers is expected to grow in the european union between now and 2020, creating more than 16 million jobs, and the rules for the recognition of professional qualifications need to be made more transparent, simpler and more flexible. one of the main reasons for the difficulties in the recognition of academic titles and professional qualifications is the lack of confidence in the criteria for accreditation and award of degrees in the country of origin, which requires the urgent introduction of automatic recognition measures by removing formal national barriers to recognition and abandoning the prior negative opinion. i support the call to lay the foundations for an ambitious system of recognition of the professional qualifications of all workers, with the aim of enabling workers to obtain all or some of the certificates (diploma, certificate of completion of vocational training or certificate of professional qualification) in the light of their professional experience, to be assessed by the commission for the recognition of acquired knowledge and competences.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because highly qualified workers still face obstacles to finding employment in another eu member state. the european parliament therefore proposes the creation of a voluntary european professional certificate attesting academic and professional experience. this certificate could be a useful tool to promote the mobility of certain professionals, simplify administrative procedures and increase worker safety. the european parliament also calls on the member states, the competent authorities and the commission to ensure that diplomas and certificates are recognised on the same basis as professional qualifications, in order to create a genuine single market at european and international level and to avoid regulating what is already regulated. member states, competent authorities and the commission should ensure greater transparency so that the person making the request or receiving a negative reply receives a full explanation of the reasons for the non-recognition of his or her diploma or professional qualification. thus, all workers must be provided with information both about their rights and about the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications in order to ensure the rights of all workers and to prevent their exploitation.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as one of the main reasons for the difficulties in the recognition of academic titles and professional qualifications is the lack of confidence in the criteria for accreditation and award of degrees in the country of origin, and the urgent need to introduce automatic recognition measures by removing formal national barriers to recognition and abandoning the negative prior opinion. the increasing free movement of highly qualified persons and workers is one of the greatest advantages of european cooperation and a competitive internal market, a vital factor in the economic development of the eu as a whole and a right of all eu citizens. i believe that the mobility of workers who are eu citizens should be encouraged and that indirect barriers should be removed, provided that the balance between mobility and the quality of professional qualifications is maintained and that any potential outflow of minds from the member states is prevented.
in writing. − the proposals set out in the communication aim to address the problems and shortcomings identified in the recognition of professional qualifications since 2005, when the directive on the full implementation of the right to take up employment or to provide services in another member state, as enshrined in the treaties, entered into force. this requires simplification of regulation, increased availability of information, increased coordination and trust in the system. on the other hand, a balance must be struck between the right to employment and the rights of consumers, including patients. i hope that the ep's proposals will be duly reflected in the commission's legislative proposal. we need to ensure that everyone who is entitled to it can benefit from the not too complex, flexible and accessible system of recognition of qualifications that professionals across the eu expect from us. healthcare professionals are the most mobile in the eu (around 57 200 professional qualifications for healthcare professionals were recognised in 2007-2010). of the 800 regulated qualifications, 43% are in the healthcare system and 9% in the social sector, including education. countries such as lithuania, which have been experiencing negative trends in the emigration of highly qualified professionals for several years, should reform the most sensitive sectors accordingly. studies show that most professionals would prefer to work in the country of qualification, even for relatively lower pay, if there were sufficient opportunities to obtain a job after graduation in the field of their specialty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to take effective measures at eu level to simplify the process of recognition of professional qualifications and to ensure the proper implementation of the freedom of movement of persons and the freedom to provide services. the envisaged automatic recognition measures will remove the current formal national barriers to recognition and will open the way to a competitive internal market. this will create favourable conditions for promoting the mobility of professionals, since the refusal to recognise qualifications acquired in another member state is often one of the main obstacles to the free movement of services and persons. furthermore, the implementation of the provisions of the directive will ensure confidence between member states in the criteria for accreditation and award of degrees in the country of origin.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this report proposes to simplify the system to make it easier for doctors to work in the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that this would stimulate economic growth and provide flexibility for the labour market, but this should be done without creating serious labour shortages in countries such as lithuania. according to a lithuanian report published earlier this year, the percentage of doctors and nurses in lithuania per 10 000 inhabitants is one of the highest in europe. however, to visit a doctor, especially a specialist, the average lithuanian has to wait several weeks or longer for a ticket. this is because lithuania has one of the largest numbers of doctors migrating within the eu. the most worrying aspect is that many of the young, talented narrowly specialised doctors, such as interventional cardiologists, cardiac surgeons, and vascular surgeons, are emigrating. last year, doctors' salaries were cut three times, cutting some specialists' salaries by several thousand litas. according to the lithuanian medical association, half of medical students go to germany, the united kingdom, and scandinavia to look for work. we need to provide more incentives to stop doctors from migrating.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report through which the european parliament welcomes the consumer agenda, to be set by the commission by may 2012 which will include all initiatives for consumers, emphasizing the need for the proper implementation and enforcement of existing legislation (in particular the latest consumer rights directive). this report indicates how the agenda must ensure safe food, health and product safety as well as aiming to lower inequalities between consumers in europe, how it can contribute to a low carbon economy as decided in the eu 2020 strategy and how it must protect children from advertising. it must also address globalisation of our markets, the digitalisation of the economy and ageing population as well as the importance of enforcement/redress instruments and support to consumer organisations. this report invites the commission to propose ‘consumer friendly’ legislation and, together with ms, to provide adequate support and capacity building to consumer organisations, with a view to strengthen their role and means thereby enhancing consumer empowerment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu citizens as consumers have a key role to play in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as consumer spending accounts for more than half of eu gdp. the dissemination of information to consumers is a necessary and important means of enabling them to choose the best prices, sales conditions and quality, which contributes to promoting competition and innovation. i support the commission's initiative to develop a consumer agenda which should focus on ensuring comprehensive consumer protection in the eu. this agenda must set out a clear vision for the future and a comprehensive approach to the current global situation, such as climate change, food security, the problem of an ageing society, etc. i believe that public procurement plays a major role in sustainable consumption and can make a major contribution to the europe 2020 goals for sustainable consumption and growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the need to increase consumer protection while ensuring the free movement of services and goods. the consumer agenda should cover all relevant topics and issues faced in the field of consumer affairs. ensuring food safety, health and product safety should be the top priority of the consumer agenda. consumer information is an essential and important tool in all financial services sectors. in particular, protection should be provided to vulnerable categories of persons who are considered as such because of their mental, physical or psychological disability, age or vulnerability, such as children, adolescents, elderly people, or certain persons who are vulnerable because of their social and financial situation (e.g. those with excessive debts). it is therefore essential to inform consumers of their rights and obligations and to ensure that consumers' rights are fully respected when using the internet and by protecting intellectual property rights, while protecting personal data and privacy. in order to implement consumer rights, the commission should continue to support and draw attention to the work of the european consumer centres, which play a key role in informing consumers about their rights.
in writing. - i agree with the view that consumers must be empowered. consumer empowerment depends on their knowledge of consumer rights and information, on the existence of well-known and effective non-governmental organisations and public institutions, on active media and on simple and accessible redress mechanisms. ensuring food safety, health and product safety should be the top priority of the consumer agenda. but we also need a consumer agenda that reduces inequalities between european consumers, contributes to a low-carbon economy as decided in the europe 2020 strategy and protects children from advertising. more broadly, new challenges facing modern societies such as the globalisation of our markets, the digitalisation of the economy, an ageing society need to be addressed, and the importance of enforcement and redress mechanisms and support for consumer organisations need to be incorporated. finally, a strong representation of consumer interests is an integral part of a strong civil society. it is necessary to ensure that such representation is possible and promoted not only at eu level but also at national level in all member states. many years after joining the eu, this is not the case in all our countries, so measures to strengthen consumer mobility are inevitably needed in these countries.
in writing. − the consumer is the essential pillar of the single market. however, unconsciously promoted consumption is destructive both economically and environmentally, and ultimately violates the rights of consumers themselves. the new eu consumer strategy should promote responsible and sustainable consumption. this requires greater attention to consumer awareness, the provision of useful, accurate and understandable information, clear labelling, and the dissemination of knowledge about consumer rights. much remains to be done to ensure consumer rights and protection in the financial services, e-commerce and energy sectors. there must be a system of dispute resolution and redress, protection of minors from misleading advertising and consumer rights for vulnerable groups elderly people, people with low incomes, people with disabilities, children and women and migrants. further research is needed on the health effects of chemicals, nanotechnologies and antibiotics used in the food, cosmetics and other industries on consumers. these and other proposals set out in the report will help to create a consumer culture in the eu, so that a generation of consumers is born who are aware of their rights, who know how to defend them, who use them responsibly, who do not waste resources, who do not exploit them, who try to contribute as little as possible to environmental damage. this will, in turn, encourage producers of goods and service providers to take more account of consumer expectations.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report, which considers the growing economic importance of the online gambling industry and through which members welcome the commission’s initiative to launch public consultation in connection with its green paper on online betting and gambling. the report indicates that efficient regulation of the online gambling sector must combat illegal gambling by strengthening technical and legal instruments for identifying and penalising illegal operators; guarantee effective protection for gamblers; preclude risks of gambling addiction; guarantee the integrity of sporting competition; ensure that part of the value of bets goes to sports and horse-racing bodies; ensure that a considerable proportion of government revenue from gambling is used for publicly beneficial and charitable purposes; and ensure that gaming is kept free from crime, fraud and any form of money laundering. although we reject any european legislative act uniformly regulating the entire gambling sector, we nonetheless take the view that, in some areas – given the cross-border nature of online gambling services – there would be clear added value from a coordinated european approach in addition to national regulation. we also believe that a pan-european code of conduct for online gambling should address the rights and obligations of both service providers and consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the online gambling sector is constantly growing and some aspects of this growth are not controlled by national governments, which poses risks to consumer protection and organised crime. although gambling services are covered by various eu legislation, such as the audiovisual media services directive, the unfair commercial practices directive, the distance selling directive, the anti-money laundering directive, the data protection directive, the privacy and electronic communications directive and the directive on a common value added tax system, there is no specific european legislation in the eu to regulate online gambling. different regulation of the sector in the member states makes it difficult for regulated service providers to provide legal cross-border gambling services, while regulators have to protect consumers and combat illegal gambling. i agree that in order to protect consumers, especially vulnerable and young players, from the negative aspects of online gambling, the eu needs to adopt common consumer protection standards and ensure that eu-wide principles are established for online gambling.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to limit the growth of the online gambling sector, to strengthen the protection of minors from online gaming, and to combat money laundering and other gambling-related crimes. at present, there is no specific european legislation regulating online gambling in the european union, and the online gambling sector is growing and the market is worth more than eur 10 billion. it is noteworthy that more and more people are suffering from the risks of addiction, fraud, deception and underage gambling. excessive online gambling can lead to mental disorders that can take over a person's life and force him to give up many important work, social, family and material obligations. in order to reduce the number of legal and illegal gambling in europe, it is necessary to adopt uniform laws for all member states concerning gambling licences and their regulation.
in writing. − the online gambling sector is growing steadily. currently, around 10% of all gambling in europe takes place online or through similar distribution channels. the increasing supply and the growing number of players in this field make the fragmentation of the current european market more and more apparent. in many member states, online gambling is banned altogether or with certain restrictions, while in others the market is fully open and liberalised. however, the very different traditions in this sector make the principle of subsidiarity particularly important. member states are largely free to decide how to regulate their gambling sector. however, such a wide variation in regulation on the internet also distorts the market. gambling service providers from member states with an open market and low tax rates are also available in countries where online gambling is prohibited or compete with licensed online gambling service providers. the latter, like the providers of gambling services in the real world, are hardly competitive in these countries. there is also a large unregulated black market online. i agree that an independent and strong national regulatory authority is necessary to ensure that the online gambling market is open and orderly. it must establish and implement the general conditions for gambling. national regulatory authorities should therefore be given the necessary powers to punish infringements and to take action against illegal service providers.
in writing. − we recently discussed in the european parliament the issue of more active action to properly regulate online gambling, and today we have already expressed a stronger position. it is worth noting that the online gambling sector is constantly growing. according to the latest figures, about 10% of all gambling in europe is now online. the market size is over eur 10 billion. these trends have also given rise to related problems, such as the risks of gambling addiction. the social group of minors - young players and other socially sensitive sections of society - is particularly vulnerable. studies show that since the advent of online gambling, there has been a marked increase in the number of people who seek help from gambling-addicted centres. compulsive gambling has been identified as a behavioral disorder that affects up to 2 percent of the population in some countries. so while we are talking about public health, we should not forget the specifics of online gambling. online gambling is also often associated with criminal activity, fraud. the cross-border nature of the internet means that these games are not hindered by national borders. this is one of the reasons why member states alone are not able to protect consumers from the risks they face. i am convinced that the national authorities responsible for supervision in the member states need to cooperate as much as possible, to exchange information and to exchange good practice. only by working together will we be able to prevent the exploitation of existing regulatory gaps in online gambling and the inefficiencies of national regulatory authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as an economic and social activity, beekeeping is of crucial importance for sustainable rural development, the creation of economic and social public goods, food security and the conservation of biodiversity. recently, increased mortality has led to a significant decline in bee populations in the eu and globally, with negative impacts on agriculture, food production and security, biodiversity, environmental sustainability and ecosystems. i support the call to increase the amount of support for research on honeybee health under the next financial framework (fp8) and to focus research on technological development and disease prevention and control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the increasingly visible decline in bee populations in the european union. bees make a major contribution to the conservation of biodiversity and to economic and social public goods. in the european union, 84% of plant species and even 76% of food production depend on pollination by bees, but their pollination is being steadily suppressed. the economic value of bees is of great importance in the european union and action is urgently needed to reduce the causes of bee mortality. pesticide use, climate change, air pollution, and the electromagnetic fields produced by human equipment are thought to be the main factors contributing to the increase in bee mortality. to reduce these factors, action is needed to improve environmental quality and reduce the use of biocides and pesticides.
in writing. − the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture. beekeeping also provides an important ecosystem service through pollination, which contributes to the enhancement of biodiversity by maintaining plant genetic diversity and ecological balance. the exact causes of the recent increase in bee mortality are still unclear. there are several obstacles to the development of new bee health products. the market for such products is relatively small compared to other livestock sectors and the return on investment is low. therefore, veterinary manufacturers are not interested in developing new medicines for bees. i agree that one of the main obstacles to effective action on excessive bee mortality is the lack of reliable and comparable data on the number of hives, beekeepers and families lost in the eu. there is a strong need for an effective harmonised surveillance system to identify the extent and causes of bee mortality. a harmonised system of surveillance at european level is needed, but member states must also take action to reduce the risks to bee health. scientific research needs to be coordinated and scientific results shared at european level to avoid duplication of effort. member states' authorities shall support the dissemination of appropriate scientific and technical knowledge on bee health among beekeepers. a permanent structured dialogue between beekeepers, farmers and the relevant institutions is needed.
in writing. - in my country, bees have long been held in high esteem for their industriousness. more than three quarters of europe's food quality depends on the work of bees. unfortunately, industrial society and chemical fertiliser-based agriculture pose a major threat to bee health, and modern science is not yet able to combat the dangers of pesticides and other chemicals to bees. the document we adopted today deals in great detail with the threats to the beekeeping sector and proposes ways of tackling them. strengthening scientific research, reviewing animal health requirements and giving due consideration to beekeeping in the context of the cap reform actions necessary to maintain the current level of the beekeeping sector and to avoid new problems in the food chain.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report regarding the reform of the eu state aid rules on services of general economic interest (sgei) in response to the commission communication on the same subject. i am in favour of this report which notes the aims of the reform proposed by the commission in seeking to clarify the application of the rules on aid for sgei, demanding the commission to provide clarification of the relationship between the rules of the internal market, and the provision of public services and that it ensures that the principle of subsidiarity is applied in the definition, organisation and financing of public services. accordingly, it calls for provisions to be framed in such a way as to ensure that they can be applied correctly and that they place no unnecessary burden on the public authorities. committee calls on the commission to come up with special de minimis arrangements for ssgi that can be assumed to entail no substantial detriment to trade between ms; to include investment costs for infrastructure necessary to the functioning of sgei within the costs that compensation payments may cover, while emphasising the importance that sgei be of high quality and universally accessible.
in writing. − services of universal economic interest (sesi) are important among the common values of the union and promote social, economic and territorial cohesion, and are therefore crucial in combating inequalities in society and in creating sustainable development. the emu makes a major contribution to the economic capacity and competitiveness of the member states, thus helping not only to prevent and overcome economic crises but also to build shared economic prosperity. the cfp can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, education and social inclusion, with a view to ensuring high levels of productivity, employment and social cohesion. i agree that the commission must provide an explanation of the relationship between the internal market rules and the provision of public services and ensure the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the definition, organisation and financing of public services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is very important to ensure legal certainty on the rules on funding for public service providers. the european commission decision setting out the rules for the granting of state aid to public service providers is still valid until the end of this year and the commission is currently deciding whether the new decision, which will come into force on 1 january next year, should change these funding rules. indeed, the content of these rules has been the subject of much debate in recent years, and the european parliament has today put forward its proposals on this matter. in particular, parliament called on the commission to simplify these rules in order to avoid placing an unnecessary administrative burden on service providers. secondly, the parliament called on the commission to clarify certain aspects of the rules which are not sufficiently clear in the current decision, and which require the constant intervention of the european court of justice in the interpretation of these rules, which do not provide any legal certainty either for municipalities or for public service providers. finally, parliament called for an increase in the prices for the provision of services above which it would be compulsory to inform the commission of the granting of state aid. i am convinced that all these efforts are essential to ultimately improve the quality and accessibility of public services to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because services of general interest are important not only for the well-being of individual citizens but also for the well-being of society as a whole. these are services which the state or public authorities consider to be of particular importance to all citizens and which would not be provided or would be provided inadequately without state intervention. the state intervention must ensure that these services are available to all citizens or that they are of high quality and affordable to all citizens. the provision of these services is a successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the fields of employment, education and social inclusion. the legal measures should be clearer, simpler, more proportionate and more effective. the administrative burden of applying the rules is too great, especially for small local authorities. the food is often completely out of proportion to the effect of the measure. there is a need to achieve greater clarity and to ensure a more diversified and proportionate approach to the different types of services of general economic interest. the aim of simplifying the aid rules so that the burden on the administrative authorities is proportionate to the impact of a particular measure on competition in the internal market could also help to improve the application of the rules. services of general economic interest must be of high quality and universal access to them must be promoted.
in writing. − as the increasing poverty in the eu is currently being exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis and by soaring food prices in the context of almost inexistent food surpluses in the eu, and that 43 million people are currently at risk of food poverty, members call on the commission to boost the involvement of organised civil society, of all stakeholders in the development of a european strategy at all levels of governance (european, national, regional and local), inviting the commission to play a coordinating role and guide the member states in meeting the current challenges and combating poverty and social exclusion. i am in favour of this report which calls for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest, in particular in the areas of health, education, public transport, energy, water and communication.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. 116 million or more people in the european union are at risk of poverty and about 42 million people live in conditions of severe material deprivation. in some member states, social inequalities are increasing, arising from economic differences in income and wealth, differences in the labour market and the resulting social insecurity, and different access to social functions of the state, such as social protection, health care, education, etc. the european poverty action plan is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce the number of people living in poverty and to reduce social exclusion. the programme for food distribution to the poorest in the union, launched in 1987, currently provides food aid to 13 million people and involves some 240 food banks and charities in the distribution chain. i welcome the council's agreement to lift the funding cuts for this important programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission's proposals on combating poverty and social exclusion have some shortcomings which could be remedied by the european parliament's proposals. i am particularly pleased that the report has drawn attention to the problem of the impoverished workers. the main reason for this phenomenon is, in my view, the excessively low level of minimum wages in the member states. in the future, this should be discussed much more widely both in brussels and in the member states, as it is the first and most effective way to reduce poverty levels across the eu. i am also pleased that the report has drawn attention to the problem of poverty among older women. in this context, the proposal to consider the possibility of legalising family leave for carers across the eu seems to make sense. this would help to solve the problem of calculating the length of working life of women, as women currently caring for dependent relatives and family members are unnecessarily losing years of work experience and consequently their pensions. i also support the idea of considering the issue of minimum pensions throughout the eu.
in writing. − over the past few years, despite the commitments of the union, poverty and social exclusion have increased. the crisis and its aftermath have exacerbated this problem, with the most vulnerable people feeling the strain. i believe that this situation is incompatible with the eu's values of justice and solidarity. in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth, the european project must focus on the most vulnerable, as poverty reduction is the engine of this future growth. poverty is a multi-factor phenomenon and therefore requires an integrated response from all levels of government, from the eu to the local level, in cooperation with local actors. i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the considerable contribution made by the actors concerned, particularly in the light of the proposals contained in this report, to overcome this problem of poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − the fight against poverty must not end with the end of the european year against poverty. poverty and social exclusion, as well as the fight against them, are complex issues requiring complex solutions not only in the fight against unemployment but also in other areas of budgetary balance, health care, reduction of discrimination, protection of human rights . as with many social protection issues, the fight against poverty is primarily a matter for the member states, so the role of the eu institutions is often only advisory. this report by us will not alleviate poverty itself. however, i hope that the governments of the member states will take note of the measures proposed and, by coordinating their actions with each other, take measures that will contribute to poverty reduction, even in economically difficult times.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which provides for measures that will make a significant contribution to the eu's priority target of reducing by 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or exclusion by 2020. we must make every effort to ensure that the main objective of income support programmes in each member state is to protect people from poverty and social exclusion. the greatest assets of the state are not land and factories. the greatest asset is its people, and the state must take care of them first. it is the state that must ensure the right business conditions in the country, take care of public employment. the minimum wage must guarantee a decent standard of living. the steady rise in the cost of food, energy and housing is one of the main causes of poverty, poverty, homelessness. in view of the current situation and the achievement of the objectives envisaged, i support the proposal for the commission to draw up as soon as possible guidelines and principles for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest and on the adequacy and sustainability of european pension systems.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the report rightly points out that the financial crisis has exacerbated the problems of poverty and social exclusion, hitting the most vulnerable people the hardest. according to official statistics, lithuania's poverty is not limited to the unemployed. the poverty rate of working people in lithuania is higher than in other member states. approximately 10.4% of working people in lithuania are at risk of poverty, compared to 8.4% in the eu-27. data from surveys of low-income families showed that the main causes of poverty risk are lack of education and high levels of dependence. the poverty rate for people in employment with less than average education is 21.1% (eu-27 16.4%). both lithuania and the eu should strive to improve education across all generations. the latest eu reports show that the majority of low-income workers live in rural areas. about 32.7% of people living in rural areas are poor, compared with 14.7% in urban areas. together we must reduce the social and economic disparities between urban and rural areas.
president of the eurogroup. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i am somewhat surprised by this debate. i am a person who is happy to put himself at the disposal of parliament and to deal with the subject which is put before it. i should be here this morning talking about, whatever you want to call it, governance, gouvernance or economic policy steering, then i have to be here with these dry topics. and then i don't like it when wise men stand up and say, "now, let's talk about this". my subject was what was sent to me - by the way, very late, with a rude introduction - and then i talk about it. i would also much rather talk about the things that the smart ones talk about, by getting off the agenda and authorizing themselves. many of you who have mentioned europe and the european parliament have made your arguments very clear in this house, in the context of your own domestic policy. some are for merkel, others are against merkel. and, oddly enough, one of them is in the cdu and the other is in the spd. sarkozy is exactly the same. is this a european parliament or is this an extension of the internal parliamentary debate? and then do not force the president of the eurogroup to participate in such a debate which ignores the subject! (applause from the centre) i voted for eurobonds in an article in the financial times months ago because i always use british newspapers when i want to send a message to europe. i have not abandoned this idea, but others have not wanted it, and if i listen to the groups, in each group there are those who are in favour of eurobonds and others who are a little more opposed to it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but here in the house, it's very often the same. and that is why i ask for some restraint in the face of the collective condemnation that regularly strikes governments here. i'm all for eurobonds. and i don't like it when this idea - as some of my party friends in germany do - is permanently degraded to a caricature so that you don't recognize it. this is not the absolute pooling of all debts, it is an instrument of solidarity with conditions. these are eurobonds. one day, this instrument will be moved again. but i have no mandate as head of the eurogroup to say that here at all. but since everyone here says what they think, i'm allowed to say what i think sometimes. i also believe that we should allow maximum flexibility in the reformulation of the framework agreement on the european stability facility. because the financial markets don't understand our insistence on unanimous, entrenched opinions that never change even after a debate. as long as we have unanimity, we are not flexible and reactive. we complain that financial markets are much faster than democracies, which is not a reason to abolish democracy. but if we want to react quickly, we have to break those unanimity clauses. but not everyone in the eurogroup agrees. i am in favour of the financial transaction tax, but not all euro governments are in favour of the financial transaction tax. we must therefore consider how we will organise these debates in the future. there are 84 questions in this debate which have nothing to do with the subject at hand. because if i'm invited here to talk about governance, i want to talk about governance. i prefer the other subjects because they are infinitely more important. then i get five minutes to answer 84 questions. this may be parliamentary, but it is not sensible or wise! (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. − mr president, many issues were raised during the debate. these issues are, in a way, interlinked. that is why, when we put forward our roadmap for stability and growth, we mentioned the need to combine growth and stability. during the debate, one specific issue that was referred to in some statements was taxation. it is important to look at this in more detail at european level. the truth is that, after the united states, the european union is the richest region in the world. yet some are suggesting that we should depend on emerging economies, countries which are much poorer than us, to rescue the european union. i find this rather strange, to be honest. the reality is stark. we have the resources in europe to respond, provided there is the political will. the reality is that our member states spend more than they receive from taxpayers. this is the reality. when the point has been reached where you can no longer cut expenditure, you need to think about raising revenue. this is unavoidable. this means appropriate, fair taxation. this taxation, i want to make clear, should not be dependent on labour – because we need more employment, not less – but should be dependent on, for instance, resource consumption, on excessive consumption of energy or on considerable fortunes and patrimony. the commission has made proposals on the fight against tax evasion through the request for a mandate to negotiate with third countries. so far we have not received a mandate from the council to negotiate with third countries to fight tax evasion. we have made proposals in the energy tax directive. we have made proposals on the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) as a first step to some kind of coordination. we have made proposals for a financial transaction tax. so let us be honest. it is not necessary to bring forward yet another package. it is time for the council and the member states to act, and to act quickly, also in the field of taxation. let us speak in very concrete terms. some governments have said that their country is very rich. the state is poor because people do not collect taxes, but the country is very rich. so, if the country is very rich, it will probably be the right moment to ask the rich country to contribute to stabilising the situation, rather than putting itself and the euro area as a whole at risk because it does not have a proper taxation system. regarding the more general debate about economic governance, the treaty requires that member states regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern – all the member states, not only the euro area countries –and that their budgetary policies are guided by the need for sound public finances. the treaty further requires that member states’ economic policies do not risk jeopardising the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. these are the guiding principles for the package of proposals for deeper economic integration which the commission is finalising for next week. we aim to find a package with the right balance between substantial reinforcement of economic governance, on the one hand, and assessing options for stability bonds, on the other. such bonds could, if well designed, strengthen financial stability and fiscal discipline in the euro area, and thus facilitate sustainable growth and job creation in europe as a whole. let us be very honest about this. there are no miracle solutions. we have to have some kind of instruments to fight the current financial instability in europe. if we want to keep a common currency, something more is needed in terms of the common instruments to fight this financial instability. we have to make a decision on this as a matter of urgency, even before any revision of the treaty. as demonstrated by the current crisis, and in particular by the need to put in place common financial backstops, euro area member states are liable to experience spillovers. they should come up with more concrete responses to possible spillovers from their policies. therefore, member states in the euro should consider their budgetary plans to be of common concern. that is why we think that draft budgetary plans should be assessed at european level before they become binding. we will, of course, assess budgetary plans with regard to both fiscal sustainability and macroeconomic imbalances. this is why we have been discussing governance today. governance is not just an objective issue regarding the substantive issues of economic policy. as we have seen during this crisis, what investors – and our citizens, of course – are asking is ‘are you in the euro area ready to take decisions?’ ‘are you in the euro area able to sustain a common currency?’ so the governance issue is a substantive issue. it is not a formal issue. this is the reality all over the world. just today, the president of the united states, speaking in the pacific, asked the european union to take bolder decisions in terms of structure and governance. i think our partners are right to ask us to have a clearer, streamlined way of taking decisions. this is why it is important to discuss these matters of governance. they should not be seen in terms of turf – if matters are decided at european or national level, if they go to brussels, to this institution or another. an indispensable pre-condition for a strong common currency is to have some kind of integration in terms of the governance of the euro area. without this increased integration, convergence and discipline, we will not be able to sustain a common currency. that moment of truth is coming. either member states accept this and complete what was initiated in maastricht, by supplementing monetary union with an economic union that requires further discipline, further convergence, and further integration, or they do not accept it, which would jeopardise our goal. this is the truth. these coming weeks will see very important decisions being taken. the commission is coming with proposals which i hope will enable us to achieve our goal and i have seen the determination in many of our member states. we know that it will be extremely difficult; let us be fair to all our member states. there are 17 democracies in the euro area and 27 democracies in the european union. the rhythm of democracy is slower than the rhythm of markets. we now need to show, also through increased community governance, that we are able to respond to the immediate and longer-term concerns. we can only achieve that through stability and growth, only through responsibility and solidarity. this is the pact at the core of our response. some just want to speak about discipline and responsibility. they should also think about solidarity. others just want to speak about growth. they should also speak about discipline. we need this pact to be achieved so that we can have a consistent, coherent, credible response to this crisis. we can come out of this crisis stronger, but, in order to do this, some important decisions have to be taken.
president of the european council. - mr president, i will be very brief. i have come here at the invitation of the president of parliament to speak about economic governance. this was the subject of preparation for the european council on 9 december, including the report i was to deliver in cooperation with the president of the commission and the president of the eurogroup. that was the subject of this debate and so i have stuck to it. in my introduction, i was very cartesian. what have we done and what are we going to do? it's as simple as that. and so i've made the enumeration, the synthesis, in fact, of what we've done. is it self-sufficient to say what we do? no, i'm not going. it is a very factual report of what has been achieved, and also of what should have been done long before the eurozone crisis. we didn't do it, we didn't ask for it, and we're paying the price today. after the chapter of what we did, what we have to do. i will again give the topics to be discussed, chapter by chapter. these are the themes that will be central to the interim report i will be presenting in december with josé manuel barroso and jean-claude juncker. these are the subjects of budgetary discipline, budgetary integration, in fact economic union, and economic convergence. and in each theme, i've specified the questions we should ask. this is not the time for me to come up with a plan. i am very respectful of the community method. the commission should be making proposals, not me! the commission has therefore made proposals and will continue to make them. my role is to try to find a consensus among the 17 and the 27 in the european council. that's my role, that's why i was asked to take on this role. and i will. but i think i asked the right questions earlier and i thank some of you who have been kind enough to give your views on the issues on the agenda today and on economic governance. as regards the three main subjects - budgetary discipline, budgetary integration and economic convergence - i would just like to make one comment. what we are experiencing is a private debt crisis, made very much worse by what banks and financial institutions have done not only in europe, but also around the world, and in a way, i would say by a global policy of very low interest rates. and this has created a debt bubble in some countries, which has resulted in a loss of competitiveness and current account deficits. and that's where a lot of our problems come from. and this, alongside a sovereign debt crisis. private and public debt are thus at the root of the problems we face today. often in this house i hear a great deal about the effects of austerity policy, but too seldom do i hear that this policy of budgetary discipline is inevitable in many countries. there are countries that are not attacked by the financial markets, and there's a reason for that: they have had a fairly healthy fiscal, economic policy. if all countries had a good ratio of, say, private and public debt, we wouldn't be in this eurozone crisis. so first things first, we need to put order in every home. i know it comes at a price, but it's absolutely essential. and even to pursue a policy of fiscal integration, and we have spoken of stability bonds, eurobonds, a form of debt mutualisation. this cannot be done without budgetary discipline. it goes with it. the two go together! yes, we say that, i agree, but we don't really emphasize it. that's the least we can do. if we want to go down the road of fiscal and financial integration, we have to go step by step, because today we are not ready to have full-fledged fiscal integration because there are too many economic, social and fiscal differences within the euro area. when youth unemployment is 8% in some countries and 48% in others, we are not ready; the divergence is far too great. so if we want budgetary integration, we must choose the means and instruments, and then see whether we need to amend the treaty in some ways and whether we need to amend it in others. we will work on these three pathways and we will discuss them in december. i am sure that we will discuss this again in this parliament and in the european council in the coming months. i would like to make two small comments on the division in europe. ladies and gentlemen, the greatest division we could have - which we will not have - would be the failure to guarantee the stability of the euro area. by then, we'd have the largest division. we must therefore give the 17 countries all the instruments and means to safeguard the stability of the euro area. i believe that this objective is a priority. i do not care at this stage whether one or the other is frustrated or whether one or the other would like to have this or that. everything has to be done to be together in the same boat: the seventeen first, then the twenty-seven. but the primary objective is to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area. a final word on economic growth. this is not just a european problem. we must, of course, make our contribution to growth and the first condition is to restore confidence in our own area because the recession, or rather the stagnation of these days comes, in the first place, not from austerity policies but from the lack of confidence of investors and consumers in the euro area. this explains much of the present stagnation. there is of course the united states which also suffers from the debt problem and which also suffers from a structural problem in its economy. i have just been there in september, and the speech given by business leaders there is virtually the same as in europe. there is of course also a loss of growth in emerging countries. they must also accept - and i am speaking in terms of the prudence of sioux - greater flexibility in their exchange rates so that the problems they are facing are not exported to other parts of the world. growth is a whole. it is not just europe and in europe, it is not just a question of austerity, it is also a question of trust. we need to work on economic growth. it is also necessary to work on this through non-financial means, which is why the single market is so important. we have not yet fully exploited the possibilities of the single market and by far. we must work on different levels and not just in europe but across the world. these are some of the things i wanted to explain to you in this debate on economic governance. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. mr president, commission president, colleagues, we are discussing today the long-term reforms to the eu's economic governance, which will determine the way and the principles on which the economic governance and surveillance system will be based. the adopted european economic governance mechanism is the largest body of legislation since the establishment of economic and monetary union on economic and financial regulation. this set of documents sets economic priorities, regulates stricter supervision of national fiscal policies, provides for measures to ensure greater economic stability and address regulatory weaknesses in the financial sector. mr president, you have expressed your support for the economic governance model that has been chosen, which leaves many people in doubt about the fragmentation of europe into a so-called two-speed europe. while all countries will be able to participate in the mechanism and comply with the criteria set out therein, only euro area countries will have decision-making rights. those member states which have already pegged their currency to the euro and have transferred their monetary policy to the european central bank, but which for some reason have not yet adopted the euro (e.g. lithuania), are directly affected in all respects by decisions taken in the euro area, even though they cannot influence them. i think that it is necessary to consider in detail the principles of the economic model chosen and to ensure that those member states whose currency is pegged to the euro also have decision-making rights in the economic governance mechanism. this principle might also provide a stronger incentive for non-euro area countries to link their currency to the euro in the first place, thus strengthening their aspirations to integrate into the euro area and at the same time participate in decision-making.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to ireland. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. ireland applied for aid in respect of 4 866 redundancies in 1 482 undertakings active in the building sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 12 689 838.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i have agreed to this document because, in this particular case, it relates to the secondary mortgage crisis in the united states in mid-2007. ireland, with a small export-oriented economy, has suffered from the effects of the credit crisis on its main trading partners. the credit crisis had a significant impact on irish banks, as well as on mortgage lending and the construction sector. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of eur 12 689 838.
in writing. − i support this decision to grant aid to the irish construction sector, which has been particularly badly affected by the financial and economic crisis. in order to mitigate the negative effects of globalisation, it is necessary to make a targeted use of the funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is essential to ensure that the assistance provided to redundant workers is dynamic and delivered as quickly and effectively as possible. i believe that the amount allocated is sufficient to mitigate the effects of the collective redundancies in the construction sector and to facilitate the return to the labour market of the workers affected in this sector.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to ireland. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. ireland applied for aid in respect of 842 redundancies in 230 firms operating in the fields of architecture and engineering and technical inspection and analysis. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 1 387 819.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i have agreed to this document because, in this particular case, it relates to the secondary mortgage crisis in the united states in mid-2007. the irish economy is export-oriented and the credit crisis has had an impact on ireland's largest trading partners. the credit crisis had a significant impact on irish banks, as well as on mortgage lending and the construction sector. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of eur 1 387 819.
in writing. − in order to mitigate the negative effects of globalisation, it is necessary to target the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is essential to ensure that the assistance to redundant workers is dynamic and delivered as quickly and efficiently as possible. i support the decision to grant aid to ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i believe that the amount allocated is sufficient to mitigate the effects of the collective redundancies and that the affected workers will be given favourable conditions for re-entry into the labour market and other active labour market measures will be implemented. this support will cover the costs of job search, training and retraining, as well as the promotion of entrepreneurship and will effectively prevent the spread of unemployment in the country. in addition, the support will encourage the unemployed to look for work themselves and to get a job more quickly.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to ireland. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. ireland applied for aid in respect of 3 382 redundancies in 1 560 enterprises operating in the specialised construction sector. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 21 664 148.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i have agreed to this document because, in this particular case, it relates to the secondary mortgage crisis in the united states in mid-2007. the small economy of ireland is export-oriented and the credit crisis has had an impact on ireland's largest trading partners. the credit crisis has had a significant impact on irish banks, as well as on mortgage lending and the construction sector. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of eur 21 664 148.
in writing. - i support the decision to grant aid to ireland, as the construction sector in that country has been hit particularly hard by the economic and financial crisis, which has led to the redundancies of hundreds of workers. i believe that the amount allocated is sufficient to mitigate the effects of collective redundancies, to facilitate the reintegration of affected workers and to implement other active labour market measures. it is also essential to ensure that the unemployed who receive support have an interest in finding work themselves and in being employed more quickly. the aid must therefore be dynamic and effective in order to cover the costs of job search, training and retraining, as well as the costs of promoting entrepreneurship, and to prevent the spread of unemployment in the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting financial aid to austria. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. austria applied for aid in respect of 2338 redundancies in 706 undertakings active in the inland transport and pipeline transport sectors. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 3 643 770.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the allocation of the egf to austria to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i have agreed to this document because in this particular case it concerns a reduction of 30 to 50% in the volume of freight business in july 2009. the traffic of lorries with a gross vehicle weight of less than 3,5 tonnes decreased by 17% in the first half of 2009 compared to the same period of the previous year. these downward trends continued in 2010 and led to a number of redundancies in austrian road transport companies. according to austria, the crisis, which affected the behaviour of european consumers and led to a decline in goods production, had a particularly negative impact on the transport sector, which only became apparent later than in the case of the main secondary industries. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of eur 3 643 770.
in writing. − i support the decision to grant aid to the austrian transport sector, which has been hit hard by the economic and financial crisis and has led to the redundancies of hundreds of workers. it should be noted that the crisis has affected small and very small transport companies the most. i believe that the amount allocated is sufficient to facilitate reintegration into the labour market and to implement other active labour market measures to encourage the self-employment and earlier employment of the beneficiaries. the aid must therefore be dynamic and effective in order to cover the costs of job search, training and retraining, as well as the costs of promoting entrepreneurship, and to prevent the spread of unemployment in the country.
in writing. - i voted for financial aid to greece. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. greece applied for aid in respect of 642 redundancies in 2 enterprises operating in the retail trade. this application qualifies for financial assistance and i therefore approve the allocation of eur 2 918 500.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in greece to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i have endorsed this document because in this particular case greece indicates that the economic and financial crisis has had a devastating effect on the greek economy. the average private sector income also decreased. the decrease in revenue had a direct consequence in the decrease in consumption. the trend in private final consumption expenditure in greece in 2009 is negative, as is the eu-27 average. in 2010, private consumption increased in the eu-27 and decreased even more in greece compared to the previous year. the decrease in private consumption had a significant impact on the retail sector and in particular on shopping centres. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise an amount of eur 2 918 500.
in writing. − in order to mitigate the negative effects of globalisation, it is necessary to target the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is essential to ensure that the assistance to redundant workers is dynamic and delivered as quickly and efficiently as possible. i support the decision to grant aid to these greek companies operating in the retail sector, as hundreds of workers have been made redundant as a result of the financial and economic crisis. i believe that the amount allocated is sufficient to mitigate the effects of the collective redundancies in this sector and to facilitate the return to the labour market of the workers affected. this support will cover the costs of job search, training and retraining, as well as the promotion of entrepreneurship and will effectively prevent the spread of unemployment in the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the need to pay greater attention to the results of the work of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) and to ensure consistency between its resolutions and those of the european parliament. the jpa has done a good job of making north-south cooperation count. at present, national and regional strategy papers are submitted by the european commission to the european parliament and the national parliaments of the acp countries for parliamentary scrutiny. it is important that the development committee and the jpa monitor the situation and ensure that this instrument of parliamentary control is used effectively. the assembly has played and continues to play a key role in overseeing the negotiation of economic partnership agreements. the hearings of the main negotiators from both sides, the meetings with economic and social actors (in formal meetings and accompanying events) and the interaction between members of the european and southern parliaments have helped to increase the transparency of the process and to take account of local concerns. whatever the outcome of the negotiations, the assembly's activities have undoubtedly had an impact on this process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) continued to facilitate an open, democratic and deeper dialogue between the eu and the acp countries on the cotonou partnership agreement, including the issue of economic partnership agreements (epas), in 2010. i believe that more attention should be paid to the results of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and to ensuring that its resolutions are compatible with those of the european parliament. in particular, the essential role of acp parliaments and local authorities and non-governmental organisations in the supervision and management of national and regional strategy documents and in the implementation of the budget of the european development fund (edf) should be emphasised. i also agree with the view that the negotiation and conclusion of the epas require strict parliamentary control. the jpa should continue to encourage eu member states to take immediate action to achieve the 0.7% gni target and to meet the millennium development goals, as well as to fulfil their specific commitments to africa and the least developed countries. however, these measures must be fully transparent, multiannual and mandatory, and also include legislation. the commission should provide acp parliaments with all available information and help them exercise democratic control, in particular by strengthening their capacity in this area.
in writing. − given that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is the largest parliamentary body covering both the north and the south, greater attention should be paid to its performance. it is worth noting that the assembly has played and continues to play a key role in overseeing the negotiation of economic partnership agreements. the opening of an open and democratic dialogue between the european union and the acp countries on the cotonou partnership agreement is welcome. i believe that the acp parliaments need more support to enable them to exercise effective democratic control. we also need to do more to achieve the millennium development goals as soon as possible.
in writing. − i fully support this report, which welcomes the commission’s proposal to use the european heritage label as a tool, among other more efficient ways, to bridge the gap between the european union and its citizens. the report suggests that, whereas the commission proposed to award the label each year, members consider that selecting sites every two years would ensure better quality of the selection process and of the selected sites. it states that transnational sites should be favoured, as they promote commonalities, and they should feature prominently in all member states’ ordinary quota of two proposed sites per year. the report insists that the new label should not be a mere transformation of the old one: no transitional provisions should be needed but the new, well defined criteria must be the object of future negotiations with the council. the commission is also asked to inform parliament, the council and the committee of the regions at each stage of the selection process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation as the council has already adopted its position at first reading, which is based on the agreement reached after the first reading in the european parliament. the commission proposal for a european heritage label focuses on the added value of this label compared to other initiatives in the field of cultural heritage. the label is awarded not because of the beauty of the site or its architectural features, but in recognition of its symbolic value for european integration and the history of the union. it is not inherently linked to conservation but to the activities that can be carried out in the sites concerned and to their educational dimension, especially if it is important for the education of young people. finally, the labelled sites will be able to function more efficiently through cooperation. the european parliament and the council agreed that each member state may pre-select a maximum of two heritage sites every two years one domestic and one international. the coordinating country shall apply the quota for international heritage sites only in order to maintain the commitment of the member states to participate in these initiatives. the panel of independent experts shall select no more than one proposed heritage site per country that may be eligible for the label.
in writing. − the european heritage label is an attempt to make european citizens feel more connected to the european union and to value diversity through a shared history and heritage, and to strengthen the dialogue between cultures themselves. i think it's a beautiful initiative that should be nurtured.
in writing. − we need to ensure that this initiative does not conflict with initiatives already underway, such as the unesco world heritage list project. i believe that the european countries should be given the right to propose the most significant cultural heritage objects and sites, which bear witness to the identity of each country as an integral part of europe, to outstanding personalities and historical events that have played an important role in the development of that country and of european history and culture. in this context, clear and rigorous criteria must be established for the selection of heritage sites on the basis of their symbolic importance for europe and their educational work, rather than on the basis of their beauty or architectural quality. it is also essential to ensure that participation is based on a voluntary and equal basis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which is important for the whole european rail system. in this context, i have consistently stressed the need to assess the specificities of the baltic states, where the dominant railways with wider track gauge than those of most eu countries are technologically and commercially integrated into the railway network of third countries. this was reflected in the amendments i made. it is good that the rapporteur and other members of the european parliament have listened to the differences in the baltic states and made the appropriate exceptions in the draft report of the parliament. parliament approved a compromise amendment to the communication on infrastructure charges, including a very important amendment for the baltic states on the possibility of imposing higher charges for the transport of goods to third countries. this will ensure that the baltic states do not have to subsidise rail freight from third countries and that all costs incurred by the infrastructure manager in providing the transport service are covered.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is of the utmost importance to pursue the development of a rail transport system in the european union that is as sustainable and environmentally friendly as possible. one of the main modes of transport that is expanding and has the potential to grow is trains. over a period of 12 years, from 1996 to 2008, the market share of the road haulage market increased by around 2%. these figures are not high because of increased competition, but looking ahead, the european union is committed to reducing its carbon emissions and is also concerned about making the most efficient use of resources. in order to expand the single european railway area and increase the efficiency of trains, measures such as stricter railway safety rules, the development of railway infrastructure and its more efficient use are proposed.
in writing. − the need to separate rail infrastructure from freight and passenger transport activities is expected to contribute to the creation of a more efficient eu single transport market, to the development of the railway sector, and to the improvement of service quality. lithuania is clearly in favour of an integrated railway management model. we take the principled position that the 'lithuanian railways' need not be split up, as their current management model is more beneficial for lithuania. i was and am convinced that the provisions of the directives cannot be applied blindly throughout the community. conditions allowing member states to address their specific problems are necessary. this position has led the commission to reconsider its proposal for the separation of different activities in the railway sector and to prepare a new draft directive by the end of next year. legislative changes are needed to ensure a more liberal, competitive railway market. however, these changes should not have the opposite effect and should be adopted in the light of the experience of hospitals not only in the eu but also in other countries. it shows that integrated railway management is often more efficient. in countries where the railway sector is fragmented, there are no more efficient operators, competition between them has not made the railway sector more attractive, and railways have not won a larger share of the transport market. the issues in the lithuanian railway sector are made even more complex by the specific situation in lithuania. the railway company does not comply with european standards and remains mainly integrated into the cis market. the close link between the infrastructure and the freight transport operator is therefore crucial for the transport of goods from third countries.
in writing. - i support the initiative to create a common european railway area. however, i do not support the proposals for the separation of infrastructure managers and operators and transport services. i believe that the implementation of these proposals will make it more difficult to open up the railway market. in addition, the quality of rail transport services will be negatively affected. it should be noted that the reservation provided for in the proposal, which applies to 1520 mm mesh, will be available to a limited number of operators. meanwhile, countries such as lithuania, which have integrated companies operating on a network linked to third countries, will be prevented from applying the above exemption, as the railway lines of these countries belong to the ten-t network. such legal regulation will have a particularly negative impact on lithuania and its rail transport sector as a whole.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, rail transport is one of the leading transport sectors in lithuania. according to statistics for the previous year, lithuanian railways carried 4.4 million passengers and more than 40 million tonnes of freight. however, the technical level of infrastructure in the lithuanian railway sector is still below that of europe. modernisation and technical interoperability between lithuanian and european railways is essential to linking europe. one of the main tasks of lithuania's transport policy should be to promote rail transport, with particular attention to the passenger transport sector. the freight transport sector is currently much better developed in lithuania than the passenger transport sector, while the number of passengers is decreasing. lithuania and the eu should do more to promote rail passenger transport and try to make it more attractive remember that rail travel is much safer and more environmentally friendly than road travel. i support the rapporteur's call for greater financial transparency and agree that national regulatory authorities should monitor rail-related services more closely. i also think that the european commission should be more involved in coordinating the rail baltic project. this is an important strategic project which is being developed to connect the railways of the baltic states and western europe. we can't let the lack of funds get in the way of this project.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. climate change is one of the major challenges of the 21st century that requires international action. in the absence of an international agreement, it is necessary to conclude a legally binding international agreement as soon as possible, in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, recognising that developed countries have a key role to play and developing countries have a proper role to play in this process. the current commitments and pledges under the copenhagen accord and formally endorsed by the cancún agreement are insufficient to achieve the overall objective of limiting the global annual average surface temperature increase to 2oc (the 2oc target). european countries face crucial choices to safeguard their future prosperity and security and to meet their co2 reduction commitments. i support the call for the world's heads of state and government to take a genuine political leadership role in the negotiations and to demonstrate the will to reach a comprehensive, international, impartial, ambitious and legally binding agreement to ensure that global temperatures do not rise above 2°c and that greenhouse gas emissions are capped as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because one of the biggest problems of this century is climate change and its impact not only on europe but also on the whole world. increased climate change is leading to more frequent storms and floods, colder winters, more rainfall, and earlier seasons. without the necessary action to reduce the global annual surface temperature increase to 2°c and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the damage to nature and wildlife will be severe and our normal lives may be irreversibly altered. the european commission has put forward proposals to reduce these problems by 2050, but it is necessary to achieve all this by 2020. climate change is caused by human lifestyles, by poor forest management, i.e. deforestation, and by many other factors. to ensure our future security, action to mitigate climate change is urgently needed.
in writing. − i voted for this document because there is a great deal of scientific evidence that climate change is happening and having an impact, and that international action is therefore needed to tackle one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century and beyond. the general objective of concluding a legally binding international agreement in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities should be pursued further, recognising that developed countries have a key role to play and that developing countries should contribute appropriately to this process. account should be taken of the fundamental geopolitical changes in the world over the past decades, with a number of developing countries becoming major economic and political players and new balances of power and influence emerging, fostering new roles and responsibilities. i believe that it is necessary to urge the conference to ensure that a comprehensive, impartial, ambitious and legally binding international agreement on post-2012 activities is reached on the basis of the international rules-based framework provided for in the kyoto protocol, in order to ensure that global temperatures do not rise by more than 2°c and that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced as quickly as possible.
in writing. − i support this resolution because climate change is one of the major global challenges facing the world today, and its solution requires concerted and coordinated action at international level. i believe that the eu must publicly commit itself to continue to meet its commitments under the kyoto protocol. all eu institutions must take a strong stand at the durban conference and take a broader and more effective eu climate diplomacy. in addition, every effort should be made to ensure that the eu's other global partners follow its example by setting binding emission reduction targets. i support the plan to create a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050. i believe that the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 is realistic and can help to preserve prosperity and security for the future. innovative financing mechanisms and revenues from the future financial transaction tax must be used internationally to achieve the objectives set. it is worth noting that the durban conference is to adopt concrete actions to implement the cancún agreements on long-term financing.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in recent years, member states have devoted only 0.43% of gdp to official development assistance (oda), despite the millennium commitment of 0.7% by 2015 and the intermediate target of 0.56% by 2010. if the eu fails to meet its aid commitments, this could seriously damage the trust and credibility of its partners in the developing world. the financial and economic crisis has put increasing pressure on national budgets and requires measures to make development aid more effective and to help eliminate the causes of impeding the development of poor countries. i agree that a change in policies is needed in all industrialized and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty, and that it is therefore essential to focus local resources in partner countries for sustainable development. priority should be given to improving tax administration and transparency, ensuring accountability of each country, and to combating tax evasion and illicit capital flight, if necessary by adopting appropriate legislation. i support the call to make the fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight a priority for development policy and to ensure that mining companies in developing countries pay proper taxes and produce in a way that respects social and environmental standards.
in writing. − in recent years, member states have allocated only 0.43% of gnp to official development assistance, despite the millennium commitment of 0.7% by 2015 and the intermediate target of 0.56% by 2010. member states committed 50% of all new aid to sub-saharan africa in 2005, but only half of this was committed. eu countries also failed to meet their commitment to allocate 0.15% of gdp to the least developed countries (ldcs) in 2010. i agree that failure to meet its aid commitments could seriously damage the trust and credibility of its partners in the developing world, and that compliance with the commitments would send a clear and unambiguous signal to poor countries and other aid providers. member states are urged to take immediate measures to implement the commitment of 0.7% of gnp and the specific commitments to africa and the octs, and are recommended to adopt fully transparent, multiannual, binding measures, including legislation. at the same time, i am convinced that more effective, more cost-effective aid is needed, since ineffective aid wastes up to eur 6 billion a year.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it should be noted that in recent years, member states have significantly reduced their support in defiance of the millennium commitment. in addition, around eur 6 billion is wasted every year on ineffective aid. there is therefore a real risk that the eu will not be able to meet its aid commitments. such a situation would cast doubt on the credibility of the eu among partners in the developing world. to dispel such doubts and to strengthen its image as a reliable and stable partner, the eu must go beyond the oda in its aid and implement other instruments for financing international development. in addition, the commission should include the issue of land grabbing as one of the most pressing issues of the moment in its policy dialogue with developing countries.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report. it aims to support and sustain european cinema – which is an important branch of european industry – both in terms of its richness and with regard to granting the widest possible access, in the interests of unity and freedom of thought. through this resolution, members call on the member states and the commission to provide financial support for the full digitisation of equipment in eu cinemas, to establish european and national programmes to support the transition to digital technologies as quickly as possible, and to encourage the circulation of european films in an audiovisual sector that is globally very competitive. members recommend the standardisation of systems based on iso standards in the areas of production, distribution and film screening, and also emphasise the need for public and private investment as the cinema sector enters the digital era. they stress that, in order to ease the digitisation process, diversified financing, both public and private, should be made available at local, regional, national and european level, particularly to support small and independent cinemas. they recommend that the financing of digitisation projects from the eu structural funds should be linked to a commitment on the part of supported cinemas to screen european films.
in writing. − the european audiovisual sector, including cinema, accounts for a large part of the eu economy. the transition to digital cinema in europe should aim to create new opportunities for the distribution of european films, to preserve the diversity of european works and to improve their accessibility to european citizens. the digital era not only opens up new opportunities for the audiovisual sector, in particular in the film industry, in terms of more efficient distribution, screening and accessibility of films, as well as better audio and video quality offered to european audiences, but also poses certain major challenges, in particular financial ones, as european cinema moves towards digital technologies. the european union should be more competitive on a global level, and i therefore support the call for the member states and the commission to support financially the full roll-out of digital equipment in eu cinemas and to develop european and national programmes for the digital transition without delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that european cinema needs support to ensure its dissemination and accessibility. it is an art form that helps people to get to know each other, to share the same human experience and to contribute to the identity of europe as a community of peoples. over 100 years have passed since the invention of the motion picture, and with the evolution of technology, the digital cinema format has become popular, which is very expensive to produce, but it is 10 times cheaper to make copies of a film than to produce a film on film tape. i also agree that eu financial support is needed not only for filmmakers but also for the development of cinemas through the use of digital technologies. this is the only way to maintain access to cultural diversity and the ability to experience it on different platforms. the digital format also allows copies of films in different languages. it is clear that in the future people will be driven by the latest technology and cinemas that do not have digital equipment will be forced out of the market and will close, so european support is essential.
in writing. − this issue was widely discussed at the dijon forum, which brought together leading european filmmakers, politicians and the ec's representatives in the implementation of the programme. the commission notes that the aid is not limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of common interest, but is limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of common interest. it is very important that the emphasis on support itself should have safeguards (in the next stage after the adoption of this document) so that the potential for european films and their distribution also grows with it (e.g. a certain support quota for digitisation for cinemas showing only european cinema, etc.). the document would thus strengthen the european film industry and make it more competitive. it is essential that measures and support for digitisation not only promote the technological process but also emphasise the purpose of the support. in my view, support should be given to european content, quantity, quality, diversity and dissemination. it is good that this document aims to support and preserve the richness of european cinema and to give citizens the widest possible access to cinema in the interests of unity and freedom of thought.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the increasing distribution of popular films, particularly in the usa, is now threatening not only the diversity of european cinema but also the existence of small cinemas. in particular, in order to survive on the market and to be competitive, they are not free to choose which films are included in the programme and which are not. the commission notes that the aid granted to the cinema operators in the prc is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary. in this context, it is necessary to establish targeted funding mechanisms to ensure support for these cinemas and the distribution of european films. particular attention should be paid to cinemas in less densely populated areas. it is also essential that the member states themselves, through educational programmes, develop an audience for european films and ensure adequate and effective mechanisms for the enforcement of intellectual property rights. it is necessary to promote european cinema more internationally and to strengthen the european film industry to make it more competitive. i believe that support for digital technologies should not only promote the development of the technological process, but also the high quality, quantity, variety and distribution of european cinema.
for the efd group in the european digital agenda, broadband and the internet are particularly important factors for economic growth, job creation and strengthening europe's global competitiveness. europe will only be able to fully exploit the potential of the digital economy when it has a well-functioning internal market in this area. i believe that transparency, quality of service and easy switching are essential for a neutral network, while ensuring freedom of choice for end-users. it is important to underline the need to preserve an open internet while providing high quality services in compliance with legislation that promotes and respects fundamental rights such as intellectual property rights, freedom of expression and freedom of establishment. the obstacles to switching operators, the blocking and capping practices and the discrimination against dominant market participants need to be removed.
for the efd group i fully agree with the author, mrs gallo, and i think that the honourable commissioner's position is a little too cautious in this case. the different value added tax applied to digital and physical goods is indeed a major problem today, preventing the potential of growth and the large supply of goods and services offered by the digital market from being properly exploited. in addition, discriminatory conditions are created when the benefits of the single market are granted only to physical goods. in this context, i believe that the commission should take immediate action to apply a reduced rate of vat to cultural goods and services supplied in the form of physical media or online, and to simplify and harmonise the vat rules. particular attention should be paid to electronic books, which are currently subject to the normal vat rate and to physical books, which are subject to a lower rate of 15% and 5% respectively. i believe that the implementation of these measures will facilitate the development of a culture of digital resources and the effective functioning of the digital single market. this market is of vital importance and is necessary for the development of more modern businesses and better services for citizens in the community countries, it contributes strongly to the further development of electronic commerce, electronic services and it is therefore necessary to remove as soon as possible the existing barriers to the digital single market.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for this opportunity and to welcome the interest and engagement demonstrated by the european parliament as regards the negotiations on an association agreement with georgia. we had an intensive and regular exchange with the rapporteurs, which, i believe, has helped in preparing a well-structured and balanced report. the recommendations of this report will be very helpful in our further negotiations with georgia. successful negotiations and conclusion of the agreement will be a major step towards georgia’s political association and economic integration with the eu and will bring our relations to a new level. we acknowledge the importance georgia attaches to its european identity. as you know, any reference to article 49 remains controversial among member states and is therefore impossible to offer, but what is important for georgia at this stage is to seize a maximum of the many opportunities which political association and economic integration will offer to change relations now: in short, to create more of europe within georgia. using this opportunity, let me briefly inform you about the state of play in the negotiations. together with our georgian counterparts, we are working intensely to advance the negotiations. since the launch of these negotiations in july 2010, talks have been conducted in plenary sessions covering political dialogue and foreign and security policy, justice, freedom and security issues, and economic and sectoral cooperation. seven plenary sessions have already taken place and the eighth round is due to take place soon. good progress was made on the preamble, the objectives and general principles of the agreement. we have been able provisionally to agree on a large part of the text. provisional agreement was also reached on a number of elements relating to political dialogue and foreign and security policy. it is not surprising that security and stability, as a result of a peaceful resolution of the existing conflicts over south ossetia and abkhazia, are the core issues for georgia. we have achieved substantial progress on justice, freedom and security as well. the sides also advanced on economic and sectoral cooperation – 19 chapters have been provisionally closed out of 28. the eu is committed to starting the negotiations with georgia on a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), as an integral part of the future association agreement, as soon as possible. this commitment was also made at the eastern partnership summit of 29-30 september in warsaw. the launch of negotiations is conditional upon georgia making sufficient progress in the implementation of certain ‘key recommendations’. the eu appreciates all the efforts that georgia has undertaken to address the issues and take the necessary steps to prepare for the negotiations. we are now in the final stages of the process, which should allow the commission to make its formal recommendation to the eu member states before the end of the year. last week, an important agreement was reached between georgia and russia on russia’s accession to the world trade organization. the eu welcomes and appreciates georgia’s acceptance of a compromise. it is in everyone’s interests – including those of the eu and georgia – to have russia inside the rules-based wto system. the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, is visiting georgia today and meeting president saakashvili. the main aim of this visit is to reinforce the message of the eu’s continuing commitment to georgia, and to demonstrate that the political and economic ties between the eu and georgia are being further strengthened.
in writing. this communication on the negotiation of an eu-georgia association agreement is an important document for the european union and the state of georgia. this is a step towards the country's membership of the european union. we support georgia's european perspective and the course of the negotiations. it is important that the eu continues to actively mediate in the resolution of the 2008 territorial conflict between russia and georgia. we call on georgia to cooperate more closely with the international criminal court in its investigation of the 2008 war crimes. i agree with the rapporteur that an agreement between russia and georgia on russia's wto membership should be reached as soon as possible. we trust that the georgian authorities will take all measures to ensure that all eu standards are respected in the country's consolidation of the rule of law, the social market economy and human rights. i join the rapporteur in calling on the georgian government to engage more widely in constructive dialogue with the opposition forces and to continue to create a democratic environment for freedom of expression, in particular by allowing all political parties to use the state media. i also call on the georgian authorities to make stronger commitments in the areas of employment policy and social cohesion and to continue to create an environment conducive to the implementation of eu social market economy standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, because of its universal nature, justice must be applied equally to all, without exceptions and without double standards. the international criminal court is the first permanent international judicial institution with the power to prosecute individuals for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, and it makes a major contribution to the promotion of human rights and international law by combating impunity, thus playing an important deterrent role and making clear that impunity for these crimes will not be tolerated. moreover, no place should become a safe haven for perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity, summary executions, war crimes, torture, mass rape or crimes related to enforced disappearances. parliament stressed that the international criminal court must not only address the problems of armed conflict, but also investigate more actively human rights violations that amount to crimes against humanity and cases where national authorities are clearly unwilling to investigate, prosecute or punish suspected offenders. despite the strong support of the eu and its member states to the icc, much remains to be done at political and diplomatic as well as at practical level to help the icc overcome the challenges and difficulties it currently faces.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the international criminal court (icc) has been successfully implementing its exceptional universal mandate to prosecute persons for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide since its establishment on 1 july 2002, when the rome statute entered into force. since its establishment, the eu has supported the icc through a wide range of political, diplomatic, financial and logistical actions, thus promoting the universality and integrity of the rome statute and contributing to the independence and effective functioning of the court. in addition to the political and diplomatic challenges currently faced, the main problem hampering the court's work is inadequate funding. it is continuously working on new cases, but the funding does not increase as new cases are brought. it is essential that the eu member states continue to provide the court with the resources it needs to carry out its mandate. more financial and logistical support than is currently available should be provided to ensure that the court's current funding shortfall is successfully addressed. the eu and its member states should ensure adequate financial support for the court's budget.
in writing. − i believe that the eu must give greater support to the international criminal court, which, as a permanent international judicial institution, prosecuting individuals for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, contributes in particular to the proper implementation of human rights and international law, and to the maintenance of peace and the strengthening of international security. serious crimes falling within the jurisdiction of the icc are of concern to all member states. every effort should therefore be made to promote the most active cooperation possible in order to prevent these crimes and to overcome the impunity of the perpetrators. it is also essential that the court be protected from possible political pressure in order to properly implement the principle of impartiality and to administer justice based on the law rather than on political motives.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the programme's primary objective is to maximise the sustainable development, economic growth and social cohesion of the eu's coastal, island and outermost regions through coherent and coordinated maritime policy measures and appropriate international cooperation. the programme shall support the sustainable use of seas and oceans and the development of scientific knowledge. the draft report addresses these key issues, better defines the objectives of the programme, takes a clear position on its financing (the objective of eur 50 million is a continuation of the work started in 2007) and provides for greater involvement of the legislator in further decisions, delegated acts and reporting.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which aims to further develop the programme to support the further development of an integrated maritime policy, to define the objectives of this programme, to set clear funding conditions and to strengthen the involvement of legislators in the adoption of delegated acts and in reporting. i believe that it remains essential to maximise sustainable development, economic growth and social cohesion in the eu's coastal, island and outermost regions. to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to implement coherent and coordinated policy measures relating to maritime affairs and to develop international cooperation. in addition, adequate and appropriate funding must be allocated to this programme.
in writing. − i support this proposal, as it is necessary to continue to actively support nuclear research and technological development under the seventh framework programme, with particular attention to nuclear fission and fusion research. it is noted that this research plays an important role in ensuring greater safety of nuclear fission and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine, promoting more efficient use of resources and greater economic efficiency. i believe that the provisions of the euratom treaty should be revised in order to simplify the budgetary procedure in the future and to increase funding for european research. as nuclear energy plays a key role in electricity generation in many member states, i am opposed to the proposal to encourage the eu to take decisive action to transition to a non-nuclear economy.
in writing. − the eu and the us, with a combined economic size of half the world's economy and a partnership worth 4.28 trillion, are the world's broadest, most interconnected and longest-lasting economic relations and the most important driver of global economic prosperity. i voted in favour of the document because the continuing financial and economic crisis in both europe and the united states is damaging the stability and well-being of the european and us economies and the well-being of our citizens, and because the overcoming of this crisis requires closer economic cooperation between europe and the united states than ever before. the need to ensure freedom and security in one's own country should not be met at the expense of the fundamental principles of civil liberties and the need to respect universal human rights standards. it should be noted that the transatlantic partnership is based on shared core values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as common objectives such as social progress and inclusion, an open and integrated economy, sustainable development and peaceful conflict resolution, and is a foundation for security and stability in the euro-atlantic area.
in writing. − the eu-us economic relationship is the longest in the world and accounts for half of the world economy. it is the most important driver of global economic prosperity. in this context, the eu-us meeting should include a comprehensive discussion of issues related to growth and employment, global governance, foreign policy, development, enhanced cooperation in research and innovation, and ensuring freedom and security worldwide. i believe that the eu and the us should work more closely together to promote renewable energy and high standards of nuclear safety in the world. particular attention should be paid to iran, whose level of progress in the design and development of nuclear weapons is steadily increasing and poses a threat to global stability and security. only through joint efforts and close cooperation between the eu and the us, using all available political, diplomatic and economic means, can strong and sustained pressure be exerted on iran to comply with its international non-proliferation obligations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because broadband and the internet are particularly important factors in europe's digital agenda for economic growth, job creation and europe's global competitiveness. the full potential of the digital economy for europe will only be realised if the conditions for a well-functioning digital internal market are created. i believe that transparency, quality of service and easy switching are the conditions for a neutral network that ensures freedom of choice for end-users. it is important to stress the need to preserve an open internet while at the same time providing high-quality services in compliance with legislation that promotes and respects fundamental rights such as intellectual property rights, freedom of expression and freedom of establishment. the obstacles to switching operators need to be removed. implement the blocking and limitation practice of discrimination by a dominant market participant.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because every user must be able to access the internet in a non-discriminatory manner, with adequate protection. it should be noted that the open nature of the internet is a key driver of competitiveness, economic growth, social development and innovation. it is one of the essential catalysts for the free movement of knowledge, ideas and information, especially in countries where the freedom of independent media is restricted. i believe that the commission should establish eu-wide guidelines to ensure that the provisions of the telecoms package on net neutrality are properly and consistently applied and enforced. in addition, member states must apply without reservation the prohibition of misleading advertising and other measures to increase citizens' trust in the online environment.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that a transparent and neutral internet, which would ensure wide access to information not held by the authorities, is vital. the rapporteur is right to say that the internet and the media can promote democratic reforms and social change. unfortunately, when the language shifts towards unrestricted access to information, it should be noted that lithuania has problems with media freedom and objectivity. the lithuanian authorities, unfortunately, have the ability to manipulate lithuanian journalists and the media. of course, the financial crisis also contributed to the lowering of media ethics standards in lithuania. two years ago, the tax exemption for lithuanian media was abolished. currently, the media is taxed at 21 percent, just like business. it is alleged that this factor contributed to the spread of corruption in the lithuanian media. in the mid-1990s, new press laws were introduced, which were modelled on the press laws of the scandinavian countries. but the simple will and the integrity to enforce these laws are still lacking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for a ban on the use of cluster munitions in post-conflict countries, where they cause many tragic injuries and deaths among civilians, leaving children and other unsuspecting innocents injured by unexploded secondary munitions. cluster munitions are aerial or ground-launched container containing from a few dozen to a few hundred secondary munitions, spread over an area roughly the size of a football field. the un convention on cluster munitions, which prohibits the use, development, manufacture, acquisition, stockpiling, storage or transfer of cluster munitions, entered into force in 2010, but has not yet been signed by all eu member states. the purpose of this resolution is to draw attention to and to call on all eu member states not to accept and ratify the recently concluded protocol to the convention on certain conventional weapons, which is not compatible with the convention on cluster munitions, as it would allow the use of cluster munitions.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because cluster munitions pose a serious threat to civilians due to their high lethal impact and because the use of these munitions in post-conflict countries has been the cause of many tragic injuries and deaths among civilians, as unexploded secondary munitions are often found by children and other unsuspecting innocent people. the support of eu member states, parliamentary initiatives and the activities of civil society organisations were crucial to the successful conclusion of the oslo process and the entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions (ccm). the cwc prohibits member states from using, developing, manufacturing, otherwise acquiring, stockpiling, possessing or transferring cluster munitions, directly or indirectly, or from aiding, abetting or inducing any person to engage in any activity prohibited under the convention. the cwc establishes a new humanitarian standard of assistance to victims, including those directly affected by cluster munitions and their families and communities. therefore, this document invites eu member states and candidate countries that are not parties to the convention on cluster munitions to join the cwc as a matter of urgency and the signatory parties to the cwc to ratify it as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for a total ban on the use of cluster munitions, as they pose a lethal threat to the civilian population. member states must strictly respect the obligation not to accept or ratify any protocol to the convention on certain conventional weapons authorising the use of cluster munitions. it should be noted that such a protocol is legally incompatible with the provisions of the convention on cluster munitions. i also believe that the commission should include a ban on cluster munitions as a standard clause in agreements with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the financial and economic crisis has seriously damaged the potential for economic growth and the digital economy can make a major contribution to europe's future prosperity. the european union can exploit the opportunities of the single market by facilitating online and cross-border trade between member states. the european parliament calls on the commission to consider the possibility of revising directive 2008/8/ec by 1 january 2015 in order to provide for value added tax (vat) to be paid in the member state of the customer. in addition, the revision of vat legislation, which would give member states greater flexibility to apply lower vat rates, should be carried out in conjunction with the application of the principles laid down in directive 2008/8/ec. in order to ensure that all member states benefit equally from the digital single market, the principle of charging in the customer's member state should be introduced as early as possible. the european union must therefore do more than simply correct the inconsistencies in the existing legal framework. in addition, the revision of vat rules should give priority to encouraging businesses to develop and offer new pan-european internet services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the digital distribution of cultural, journalistic and creative content gives authors and content providers the opportunity to reach more new consumers. i believe that the eu must continue to promote the creation, production and distribution (across all platforms) of digital content and that a lower vat rate for online cultural content could really boost growth. a revision of the vat legislation is necessary to allow member states greater flexibility to apply lower vat rates, and this should be carried out in conjunction with the application of the principles laid down in directive 2008/8/ec. in order to ensure that all member states benefit equally from the digital single market, the principle of charging in the member state of consumption should be introduced as early as possible. finally, any revision should simplify the vat system, for example by introducing the single window principle for vat and eliminating double taxation.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the digital market is very important and vital for modern business and eu citizens. this market is a major contributor to the further development of e-commerce services and it is therefore necessary to remove the existing barriers to the digital single market as soon as possible. the difference between vat on digital and physical goods is a major problem today, preventing the potential of growth and the large supply of goods and services offered by the digital market from being exploited. in addition, discriminatory conditions are created when the benefits of the single market are granted only to physical goods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to recognise georgia as a european state and to base the eu's commitments and ongoing negotiations with georgia on a european perspective. it is also important to ensure public support for these reforms, which could further strengthen georgia's commitment to shared values and the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance. the importance of tolerance between ethnic groups and religious tolerance should be emphasised. it is also worth noting that the georgian parliament recently adopted a law on the registration of religious organisations and the georgian government approved positive actions in the field of education aimed at greater integration of national minorities. the commission has also made progress in the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement, which was signed in june 2007 and entered into force on 1 january 2008. the government of georgia should also be encouraged to promote media freedom, freedom of expression and media pluralism. it is important to allow the media to report independently and objectively, free from political and economic pressure. in addition, it is necessary to ensure the sound and effective implementation of measures to protect journalists and to ensure transparency of media, in particular in the field of ownership of broadcast media, and free access to public information.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal as it is necessary to ensure that the negotiations with georgia continue in a stable manner and that the association agreement provides a comprehensive and forward-looking basis for the further development of relations with georgia in the coming years. i believe that the eu's commitments and ongoing negotiations with georgia need to be based on a european perspective, which is seen as a valuable tool for reform and an essential catalyst for public support for these reforms, which could further strengthen georgia's commitment to shared values and the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance. it is important for the european union that georgia ensures that toxic and radioactive waste is properly managed on its territory, as this is one of the conditions for facilitating trade, especially in agriculture, in order to ensure food security.
in writing. − the agreement between the russian and georgian governments on russia's accession to the wto, which includes a trade monitoring regime between the two countries, is welcome. however, this is only a small step forward for the country in developing negotiations with georgia with a european perspective. i believe that in order to fully cooperate with georgia, the country must strengthen its commitment to the principles of shared values, democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance. georgia should cooperate more actively with the international criminal court, which is currently conducting an initial inquiry, and respond as soon as possible to the questions raised by the independent fact-finding mission into the international conflict in georgia. it is also essential that the georgian authorities cease to exert political pressure on political opponents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because gender mainstreaming is more than simply promoting gender equality through concrete measures: it is more about all the common policies and instruments to achieve a specific goal of gender equality. the main objective of gender mainstreaming is to change habits and formal institutions to take more account of the experiences of the whole society, both women's and men's. it is good to see that not only the committee on women's rights and gender equality, but also many other committees of the european parliament have taken initiatives in various areas, including the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development on its own initiative on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas and the public hearing of the committee on fisheries on the role of women in the development of sustainable fisheries areas. i would like to stress the need to work closely with the european institute for gender equality (elli), whose task is to disseminate appropriate methodological tools, and to better assess the integration of the gender dimension in parliament's work. the european parliament also calls on the commission to address gender inequalities in a more coherent and systematic way and to give them priority in all policy areas and in their implementation. it also urges the integration of gender issues into all policy areas to achieve gender equality objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union is the world's largest importer of fishery products and one of the world's largest fisheries operators. it therefore has a major responsibility to play a key role in mobilising the international community's efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. unfortunately, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a major environmental and economic problem in both fishing seas and freshwater fishing areas worldwide, undermining fisheries management, threatening the sustainability of fish stocks and food security. it also distorts the market and has unpredictable consequences for society as a whole, including developing countries. such illegal fishing and related commercial activities create unfair competition for fishermen and others who operate in accordance with the law and cause economic hardship for fishing communities, consumers and the sector as a whole. in the fight against illegal fishing, there is therefore a need to increase coordination between the commission, the community fisheries control agency and the member states in order to improve the collection and exchange of information and to promote the rigorous and transparent application of european union fisheries legislation. in addition, member states and the commission should ensure the fight against illegal fishing at sea and in inland waters.
in writing. − fishing is a global industry, and so is inevitably illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. as we know, global cooperation is needed to combat iuu fishing. the world's oceans are the common heritage of mankind, and it is the common duty of mankind to preserve them. i agreed that a global ocean governance system is essential for fisheries management, especially in the high seas, and that the current approach is completely wrong. it is necessary to negotiate international agreements to ensure that fishing rights are subject to the necessary criteria relating to transparency of ownership, operations and catches, traceability of products, etc., and that states that fail to fulfil their obligations lose fishing rights. finally, it should be noted that many of these recommendations will require significant resources to implement. many developing countries would have difficulty finding such resources, so ways of providing aid must be found. it's a common situation these days. however, such aid cannot be unconditional; in the event of failure, the beneficiary countries should suffer the same consequences as other countries, such as export bans.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu and each member state must do everything possible to prevent illegal fishing from spreading globally. coordinated cooperation is necessary to increase joint surveillance and control capacities, in particular to harmonise the european coast guard function. i think it is appropriate to call on the commission to increase funding for the fisheries sector in agreements with developing countries. the commission and the council must also step up their efforts to combat corruption and organised crime in this area and increase funding for the implementation of preventive measures.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! of course, it's a complicated issue on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's obvious. i personally believe that the mp uspaski was a victim of political reckoning and this case is a way to deal with him as a politician and party leader. the rapporteur is quoting, and putting it very nicely, the opinion of the current majority in lithuania, but, mr rapporteur, the same political group has taken these actions to remove mr uspaskich from politics. so this is strictly political action. the very fact that three political groups at the committee meeting had different views and three others had different views shows that the situation is complicated. the epp group's opinion is influenced by the lithuanian delegation led by landsbergis, who is involved in this case and there may be very little objectivity here. but there can be no bolshevism in the european parliament, and we are dealing here with clear cases of breach of the law and attempts to crack down on politicians. our political group ecr will vote to maintain the immunity of mp uspaskich.
in writing. twenty years after the declaration of independence and eight years after the application for membership of the european union, croatia has successfully completed a historic milestone in the eu integration process. croatia's membership will strengthen the eu, enrich european culture and heritage and help to maintain the credibility of the enlargement process, while at the same time providing a good example of how all pre-defined objectives can be achieved by implementing all commitments in good faith. thus, after almost six years of negotiations and years of preparation that have transformed the political, economic and cultural landscape of the country, croatia will join the european cradle. while croatia has already made considerable progress, the european parliament calls on the croatian authorities to further strengthen the fight against corruption and, in line with eu best practice, to promote a culture of accountability in the political, public sector and judiciary, as this is a prerequisite for the establishment and strengthening of the rule of law. moreover, efforts should be made to investigate war crimes and to implement a new strategy to combat impunity, which is essential to ensure justice and achieve long-term regional reconciliation. the european parliament welcomes the adoption by the croatian government in july 2011 of a declaration on the promotion of european values in south-eastern europe and calls on croatia to continue promoting the eu's enlargement, promoting european values in the region, in order to ensure peace, prosperity, freedom, the rule of law, democracy and a social market economy.
in writing. mr president, eight years after croatia applied for membership of the european union and 20 years after declaring its independence, it has crossed the european rubicon. this is a historic moment for this beautiful country, integrating with the eu and returning to the european family after years of hardship. accession negotiations are coming to an end and croatia's achievements in this respect deserve recognition. croatia is bringing the heritage of the balkan slavs to european culture. the country is a good example of how the rigorous implementation of commitments can lead to the achievement of important european objectives. after many years of negotiations and preparations, croatia has changed the socio-political, cultural and economic situation in the country. it has introduced a number of reforms bringing the country closer to european standards. it is particularly pleased that the return of refugees and displaced persons has been supported and effectively facilitated during the balkan wars. the open policy towards serb returnees can serve as an example of breaking down stereotypes and prejudices. i hope that croatia will continue to strive for better neighbourly relations and be an important and active leader in regional cooperation at political and economic level. today, croatia is opening up many new opportunities that membership brings. i am pleased to welcome my croatian brothers to the enlarged union on 1 july 2013.
for the efd group a well-learned lesson from the past can be a good bridge to a more successful future. have they been taught by our commonwealth? the european union institutions and the member states of the community should therefore reassess the current situation in their assessment of the crisis. first, public administration should be modernised and made more efficient. secondly, financial management must be strengthened, as the directives adopted are not always effective enough to meet the challenges. the scale of unemployment in the union should be one of the key issues for workers in the european union today. we must talk about urgent measures and programmes which will enable the unemployment rate to be reduced by at least a third in the shortest possible time. i don't like solutions that offer help to banks instead of helping people. you can only save if you can earn. i therefore urge the commission to envisage and present concrete plans to make progress in the areas of job creation, innovation, education, energy, social inclusion. and most importantly, to ensure growth.
mr president, i expressed strong disagreement with my group and i voted against the position of my group concerning the assessment of what happened to our colleague viktor uspaskich. i am afraid that the audiatur et altera pars principle has been severely violated and that only one side has been listened to. the criticism of lithuania as a country where politically motivated trials are allegedly pursued is unfair, one-sided and misguided. lithuania is a democracy. the rule of law does exist in lithuania. to imply that things are otherwise and that lithuania is engaged in something similar to the timoshenko case in ukraine would be absurd. i see no reason why a politician should avoid a trial defending his or her honour. i find it difficult to believe that we could send a message to my country that the separation of powers does not exist in lithuania. to treat lithuania like belarus would be simply preposterous and would deal a blow to the reputation of the european parliament in my country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and supported the decision annexed to the resolution on the mobilisation of the european flexibility instrument to support the europe 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood instrument. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility to mobilise the flexibility instrument to cover clearly identified expenditure which cannot be covered within the ceilings of one or more categories of expenditure of the multiannual financial programme. having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under categories of expenditure 1a (competitiveness for growth and employment) and 4 (eu as a global actor), the two budgetary authorities (council and european parliament) have agreed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement funding under the 2012 budget beyond the ceilings provided for in categories of expenditure 1a and 4: eur 30,75 million for the europe 2020 strategy under category 1a; and eur 208,67 million for the european neighbourhood instrument under category 4.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the possibility of mobilising the flexibility instrument to cover clearly identified expenditure which cannot be covered within the ceilings of one or more categories of expenditure in the multiannual financial framework. the ceilings set in the multiannual financial framework, in particular for sub-heading 1a and heading 4, do not allow the financing of eu priorities without prejudice to existing instruments and policies. i have endorsed the document as, after having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations for categories 1a and 4 of expenditure, both budgetary authorities have agreed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement funding under the 2012 budget beyond the ceilings for categories 1a and 4 of expenditure, namely eur 30,75 million for the europe 2020 strategy under category 1a and eur 208,67 million for the european neighbourhood policy instrument under category 4.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as the european flexibility instrument must be mobilised as soon as possible to cover the costs and support the europe 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood instrument. it is important to further develop the framework of flexibility measures to ensure that unforeseen needs are financed, as the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy priorities and structural reforms and the european neighbourhood policy instruments are among the eu's priorities. it is worth noting that the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument demonstrates once again the urgent need to increase the flexibility of the eu budget. however, in all cases, a balance must be struck and maintained between flexibility and budgetary discipline in the eu budget. it is essential to ensure that eu budget expenditure is predictable and to ensure the continuity of programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu budget for 2012 and i support the overall text agreed by the conciliation committee in the negotiations in november. the eu budget for 2012 provides for a total amount of 129 088 million in payment appropriations and 147 232 million in commitments. in view of the continued efforts of the member states to continue fiscal consolidation, the council and the european parliament have agreed to a reduction in the level of payment appropriations for 2012 compared to the draft budget submitted by the commission. however, the commission may require additional payment appropriations in the amending budget if the appropriations entered in the 2012 budget are insufficient to cover expenditure under expenditure sub-heading 1a (competitiveness to promote growth and employment), expenditure sub-heading 1b (cohesion to promote growth and employment), expenditure sub-heading 2 (conservation and management of natural resources), expenditure sub-heading 3 (citizenship, freedom, security and justice) and expenditure sub-heading 4 (eu as a global actor). i agree that the europe 2020 strategy must be at the heart of the eu's 2012 budget strategy, as this policy is a very important and necessary component of the eu's economic recovery strategy and therefore needs to ensure adequate investment at eu and national level. i also believe that the eu budget should be a tool to help member states implement economic recovery policies by encouraging and supporting national investments that will boost growth and employment.
in writing. − today we voted in favour of the european union's budget for the coming year. agreeing on a budget is always a challenge. this is particularly true this year, with the european parliament actively involved in the budget negotiations and, on the other hand, with the european union economy not generating more revenue for the budgets - both national and eu - in the coming years. in digital terms, the eu budget is growing. however, in terms of annual inflation, we remain in the same position. the important thing is that the amount of money spent on economic growth and research does not decrease - this is the only way to boost the eu's resilient economy. however, in the future, member states themselves should also have an interest in reducing administrative costs, in particular by giving up three european parliament seats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which endorses the council's position on draft amending budget no 6/2011 of the european union for the financial year 2011, as amended. draft amending budget no 6/2011 of the general budget for 2011 covers an increase in the commitment appropriations for expenditure categories 1 and 4 of respectively eur 3,25 million to provide greece with specific skills to support the implementation of the administrative reform action programme in the field of tax administration and eur 113,4 million for the appropriations needed to provide financial support to palestine, the peace process and the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east, as well as additional measures for the banana trade. the payment appropriations are also to be increased by eur 550,3 million. this increase is intended to cover the following expenditure under category 1: eur 142 million will be used to increase payments under expenditure category 1a 'competitiveness to promote growth and employment' under the heading 'cooperation' under the heading 'nanoscience, nanotechnologies, materials and new manufacturing technologies' and the remaining eur 408 million will be reallocated to expenditure category 1b 'cohesion to promote growth and employment' under the heading 'european social fund' under the heading 'convergence to meet unmet needs after the general shift'. in particular, a new article 'programme to support the further development of the integrated maritime policy' was created, with eur 23.14 million in commitment appropriations entered in the reserve.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as there is growing concern about the council's position that if the union is to recover from the current economic and social crisis, it must be supported by future-oriented investment. the increased appropriations are necessary to provide financial support to palestine, the peace process and the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east, as well as for the additional measures for the banana trade, transferred from unused macro-financial assistance appropriations, and form part of the agreement reached by the conciliation committee in its deliberations on the budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as portugal submitted an application to mobilise the egf on 6 june 2011 for redundancies in three companies (manufacture of light commercial vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) operating in the northern and central regions of portugal, and supplemented it by more detailed information up to 18 july 2011. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 1 518 465.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a member of the european parliament's public opinion or statements should be considered as an expression of political will, which would ensure proper and effective discharge of duties and accountability to the electorate. no person shall be punished for publicly expressed opinions unless such statements are characteristic of a criminal offence. it should be noted that the immunity of a member of the european parliament is an institutional measure and a guarantee of independence, protecting against external pressure and guaranteeing the independence of members in the performance of their duties. moreover, parliamentary immunity is intended to protect both the institution itself and its members as individuals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering. the proposal defines a countervailable grant as a direct financial contribution which is granted as support and which can be partially or fully reimbursed without interest. it specifies that the structural funds may finance expenditure incurred in carrying out activities linked to the contributions to be reimbursed. it also specifies that the funds returned to the granting authority or to another competent authority of the member state must be kept in a separate account and reused for the same purpose or in accordance with the objectives of the operational programme. legal certainty and clarity should be ensured with regard to repayable assistance and financial engineering instruments. i agree with the rapporteur that proper monitoring of financial engineering instruments is necessary, but that new additional reporting obligations for member states should not apply. the ep amendments aim to clarify the text, to include a definition of a credit line, to amend the reporting requirements and to clarify the obligations relating to the declaration of expenditure.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 specifies the different forms of support that could be provided as a contribution from the structural funds. member states have introduced these forms of support during the 2000-2006 programming period and have set up special funds, as well as providing repayable support through other instruments. on the other hand, council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not provide for the definition of both repayable and non-repayable aid. it contains provisions on financial engineering measures, but their scope is rather narrow. the regulation does not appear to cover repayable aid. however, member states continued to apply forms of reimbursable support, building on the positive experience of the previous programming period. i have endorsed the document as it is necessary to provide in regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 that the aid to be recovered may be co-financed by the structural funds. the commission proposal aims to clarify the legality of the existing legal practice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because we must make every effort to ensure that the money returned is properly invested and that the aid provided is used as efficiently as possible. in particular, the structural funds should be used to finance expenditure incurred in carrying out activities linked to the contributions to be reimbursed. in order to ensure a transparent and expeditious implementation process, it is necessary that the refunded aid is held in a separate account and used for the same purpose. particular attention should be paid to financial engineering as an innovative way of using eu structural funds resources. the commission and the member states should therefore ensure the monitoring of the application of those measures. it is also essential to ensure that administrative costs or charges are proportionate to the overall effectiveness of the financial engineering instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions on financial management applicable to certain member states experiencing or threatened with severe financial stability difficulties. the european commission's proposal sought to provide additional financial resources to eu member states facing particular difficulties in managing their public debt/deficit and to ensure financial stability in order to continue implementing programmes. a balanced compromise was reached in the negotiations with the council on the retroactive application of the proposed measures, as well as on a temporary suspension allowing all the countries participating in the programme to benefit from the increased co-financing rate. it will also allow for rapid assistance to those member states that have been severely affected by the crisis. the temporary increase in co-financing rates will facilitate the concentration of resources on specific projects and reduce the pressure on national budgets.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the commission proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006. the aim is to provide additional financial resources to eu member states facing particular difficulties in managing their public debt/deficit and to ensure financial stability in order to continue implementing programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, as the national budgets of the member states have been particularly badly affected by the prolonged financial and economic crisis, and measures are therefore needed to help ensure the financial stability of the member states and the continued implementation of the programmes. in this context, it is necessary to provide temporary additional financial assistance to those member states which are facing significant difficulties in administering their public debt or deficit. i therefore support the proposal to increase the overall funding rates for a certain period. it is also essential to ensure that support is provided only in exceptional cases where the problems encountered cannot be solved by other means.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the commission proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards its period of application. council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 authorises spain to apply or exempt certain locally produced products in the canary islands from the reduced so-called aiem tax (which is normally levied on products imported into and purchased in the canary islands) until 31 december 2011. decision 2002/546/ec gives the reasons for adopting specific measures to strengthen the local industry by increasing its competitiveness. the global economic crisis of 2009, which led to a drop in travellers, had a significant impact on the canary islands' economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism revenues. on 16 november 2010, spain submitted to the european commission a request for an extension of the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec for two years. the commission assessed the request in the light of the extent of the difficulties encountered by the canary islands. it concluded that the data available justified the granting of the request. the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards the period of application of that decision will allow for an extension of its period of application until 31 december 2013.
in writing. − the provisions of the eu treaty do not, in principle, allow for a differential taxation between local products from the canary islands and products from spain or other member states. by council decision of 20 june 2002, spain was authorised to apply a reduced rate of the so-called aiem tax or to exempt certain locally produced products in the canary islands until 31 december 2011. the decision sets out the reasons for adopting the specific measures to strengthen the local industry by increasing its competitiveness. the global economic crisis of 2009, which led to a drop in travellers, had a significant impact on the canary islands' economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism revenues. as a result, unemployment increased to 26,2% in 2009, whereas the unemployment rate ranged from 10,4% to 12% between 2001 and 2007. on 16 november 2010, spain submitted to the european commission a request to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec by two years in order to bring its expiry date into line with the expiry of the guidelines on national regional aid for 2007-2013. the commission assessed the request in the light of the extent of the difficulties encountered by the canary islands. it concluded that the data available justified the granting of the request. i have endorsed the document as a proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards the period of application of that decision, allowing for an extension of its period of application until 31 december 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this decision because, in view of the extent of the difficulties faced by the canary islands, it is appropriate to extend the tax exemption currently applicable to the canary islands. it should be noted that the canary islands derive most of their income from tourism. the prolonged economic and financial crisis has had a particularly severe impact on the canary islands' economy, with an increase in unemployment. i believe that the eu should give its outermost regions as much support as possible, through specific measures, thus enabling the economies of these regions to develop. in view of the unfavourable market situation of the canary islands, it is necessary to improve their competitiveness by strengthening the domestic industry by granting certain tax incentives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and supported the commission proposal for a council decision amending decision 2007/659/ec as regards its period of application and the annual quota for the application of the reduced rate of excise duty. taking into account the special conditions, particularities and limited possibilities of the outermost regions of the eu, including the french overseas departments, the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, will establish specific measures aimed at establishing the conditions for the application of the treaties and the common policy to these regions. these specific measures relate in particular to tax policy. however, those measures will not affect the integrity and consistency of the union legal order.
in writing. − france is authorised to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to traditional rum produced in its overseas departments and sold on the mainland. the reduced rate of excise duty shall apply only to an annual quota of 108 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol. the derogation expires on 31 december 2012. the french authorities have submitted the required report to the commission with two requests. first, it is requested that the annual quota of 108 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol be increased to 125 000 hectolitres in order to reflect the evolution of the eu rum market. secondly, the extension of the period of application of decision 2007/659/ec by one year, i.e. until 31 december 2013, is requested in order to coincide with the expiry of the period of application of the commission decision of 27 june 2007 on state aid in the same field (state aid no 530/2006). i voted in favour of the motion to approve the commission proposal.
in writing. - i support this resolution which provides for the extension of the period of application of the reduced rate of excise duty on rum produced in the french overseas departments and sold on the mainland and for a corresponding increase in its quotas. it should be noted that the application of the reduced excise duty is of particular importance for these regions and their development. it should be noted that their remoteness, isolation, small size and difficult topographical and climatic conditions make the social and economic situation of the overseas departments particularly difficult. in view of the particular characteristics and limited possibilities of these regions, it is therefore necessary to maintain the reduced rate of excise duty on traditional rum produced in the overseas departments in order not to jeopardise their development and to ensure economic and social stability.
in writing. - i voted for this important document. the european central bank plays an important role in maintaining price and financial stability and adequate liquidity in financial markets. the prolonged financial crisis in the eu and the widening gap in economic convergence between the euro area and the countries whose currencies are pegged to the euro remain one of the most serious challenges for the single monetary policy. i believe that the european union needs a common fiscal area, which includes not only the euro area countries but also those member states whose national currencies are linked to the euro and are directly affected by all decisions taken by the ecb. i have repeatedly proposed the establishment as soon as possible of a european credit rating agency, which would enable the economies of the member states to be assessed objectively and independently on the basis of clear and transparent rating criteria. i also support the call in the report for the commission to take all the necessary steps to create a european monetary fund, which would remove the need for the international monetary fund to participate in european credit policy and reduce the dependence of the member states on other international institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it welcomes the fact that the ecb has so far managed very well to keep hicp inflation at around 2%, despite several macro-financial shocks and volatile commodity prices, and in a period of low average gdp growth in the union. the ecb's primary objective is to maintain price stability and that this contributes to maintaining financial stability and adequate liquidity in financial markets. financial instability poses a serious threat to price stability over the medium term, which makes the functioning of the monetary policy stance more difficult. i believe that the ecb has played a crucial role in the emergency measures it has taken to maintain market stability.
in writing. − i agree with the 2010 annual report of the european central bank (ecb). the ecb has done a very good job, especially at a time of very low gdp growth and volatile commodity prices, which was difficult for europe as a whole. despite these factors, the ecb, through its contingency measures, has played a key role in preserving market, price and financial stability, and adequate liquidity in financial markets. the ecb has maintained a steady and active stance throughout the crisis. however, the ecb must ensure greater transparency in the performance of its tasks. i believe that the creation of a european credit rating fund is appropriate in order to break the current oligopoly in credit ratings and to promote fair competition. the commission must also make every effort to ensure that the european monetary fund is set up and operational as soon as possible. only by implementing these measures will the dependence of the member states on other international institutions and the imf be reduced, without the involvement of the imf in the future european credit policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because there is a need to create a system for the reintegration of people who have not finished school into the education system. one of the solutions is to encourage member states to set up so-called 'second chance' or 'alternative' schools. they must meet the needs of those who did not complete school in the earlier years of their lives when the education system failed them. in addition, these schools must be flexible and adaptable to enable individuals to balance their commitments to the educational institution with work and family obligations
in writing. − the european union's ambition to become the most competitive economy in the world is particularly influenced by the education of its citizens. one of the aspects of education is the number of people who are not leaving school. my country, lithuania, is one of the few that has already achieved its goal of reducing this figure to less than 10 percent. it would be nice to suggest that other countries take lessons from countries like lithuania, but the education system in each country is unique, reflecting cultural and social characteristics. in line with the general principles set out in the resolution, i would like to stress that, in the field of education, we must nevertheless take account of the specific features of each country and seek to find attractive individual solutions for each of them. at the supranational level, however, we can only encourage member states and the eu institutions to cooperate more closely and to exchange good practices.
in writing. − i support this resolution because school leaving is a major factor in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. i believe that the implementation of appropriate measures at european union level can solve this problem and prevent the spread of poverty. it is worth noting that most member states still have a fragmented and poorly coordinated approach to tackling this problem. in particular, certain school reforms and the creation of a pupil advisory fund are needed. schools should be encouraged to abandon the traditional testing model so that a student's future prospects are not dependent on a one-day mark. evaluation should be an ongoing, ongoing process. it is also essential that member states continue to develop educational opportunities, innovate and diversify national education programmes through a variety of means. i support the idea of second chance schools, which would enable people who have left school to reintegrate into the education system, creating favourable conditions for them to reconcile their commitments to the educational institution with their work and family commitments.
in writing. the ep has stated that it is ready to accept the compromise package, as the existing measures will expire fairly soon. i abstained, as i regret that the council's lack of flexibility has not made it possible to further improve the text of the complementary measures in the banana sector under the development cooperation financial instrument, in particular the provisions relating to the role of parliament in strategic decision-making, where it is essential that both legislative bodies have equal rights. i believe that this outcome should not set a precedent for future negotiations on external financial instruments beyond 2013. parliament shall require the use of delegated acts whenever the financing and planning of those measures involve strategic political decisions.
in writing. − the adoption of this package of complementary measures for the banana sector in the context of the development cooperation financial instruments must be a comprehensive compromise. it should be noted that policy coherence for development, development autonomy and unbundled aid are of particular importance in ensuring aid effectiveness. particular attention shall be paid to the provisions relating to the role of parliament in strategic decision-making. both legislative bodies must have equal rights. in all cases where the financing and planning of those measures involve strategic political decisions, delegated acts shall be used.
in writing. − on 21 april 2009, the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1394/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrial and other high-income countries and territories (the instrument regulation). the proposal is part of the mid-term review of the external financing instruments. main objective to extend the scope of the regulation to include cooperation with developing countries falling within the scope of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 of 18 december 2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation in the field of geographical cooperation with developing countries in asia, central asia and latin america, and iraq, iran, yemen and south africa. the amended instrument regulation will provide an appropriate legal basis for (financing) activities which do not meet the criteria for official development assistance as set out by the development assistance committee of the organisation for economic cooperation and development and which, on this basis, do not fall within the scope of the instrument regulation. i supported the proposal as the amended regulation will further strengthen relations with countries that are both developing countries and important partners in the global economy, such as china, brazil and mexico, as well as with regions such as the middle east and central asia, asia, latin america and south africa.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i think it is appropriate to extend the scope of the regulation to include cooperation with developing countries. the amended regulation will strengthen the eu's relations with countries that are both developing and important partners in the global economy, in particular brazil, china and mexico. it is worth noting that these countries are important bilateral partners and participants in multilateral forums and global governance. the eu also has a strategic interest in developing a wide range of relations with them, particularly in areas such as the economy, trade, academia, business and scientific exchanges.
in writing. − the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the financial instrument for development cooperation are the only instruments for external actions which do not provide for an exception to the principle that expenditure relating to taxes, duties and other charges does not qualify for eu funding. all other measures in this field shall allow for flexibility in the financing of these expenditure in specific cases in order to ensure the proper implementation of programmes and projects. i supported the proposal because such flexibility is necessary because the strict wording of the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the development cooperation financial instrument can make it very difficult to implement actions financed by external aid.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the instrument for financing european democracy and human rights worldwide needs to be given flexibility. the current very strict wording makes it difficult to implement actions financed by external aid. therefore, in order to ensure the effective implementation and achievement of the objective of this measure, it is necessary to allow for a more flexible financing of the costs of taxes, duties and other charges which do not meet the eu financing requirements in specific cases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the european parliament has indicated that it is prepared to accept the compromise package in the spirit of compromise, given the relatively short time remaining to the existing measures. it is regrettable that it has not been possible to further develop the text of the complementary measures in the banana sector of the development cooperation financial instrument, in particular in view of the role of the european parliament in strategic decision-making, where it is necessary to ensure a level playing field for all legislators. this outcome should not serve as a precedent for future negotiations on external financing instruments beyond 2013. the european parliament, in accordance with the criteria set out in article 290 (1), should encourage the use of delegated acts where strategic political decisions on the financing and programming of those measures are required. it should be noted that the delegation recommended that the position on the package be maintained and that parliament adopt the joint text at third reading.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the remaining duration of the existing measures is short and a compromise is therefore necessary to ensure the effectiveness of external assistance. it is essential that the role of parliament in strategic decision-making continues to be taken into account. all legislators must be treated equally. furthermore, delegated acts should be used in the future negotiations on external financial instruments applicable after 2013 when deciding on the financing and programming of those instruments.
in writing. − the commission has proposed a new version of the regulation on statistical returns in road freight transport, aimed at: firstly, systematising the various legislative acts applicable to the collection of statistics on road transport; and, secondly, establishing new conditions for the delegation of legislative powers to the commission. the latter objective is in line with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i supported these proposals, but i also agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to ensure that the application of the delegation of power does not impose a significant additional financial burden on the providers of statistical data.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the new version of the regulation aims to systematise the various legal acts applicable to the collection of statistics on road transport and to establish new conditions for the delegation of legislative powers to the commission. it should be noted that the application of the delegation should not create additional financial and administrative burdens for the contributors of statistical data. for this reason, parliament should be given the power to impose certain conditions which would protect the reporting agencies from additional burdens. i think it is appropriate to limit the delegation of power to the commission and to lay down additional conditions for the exercise of that power. it is also essential to ensure that the commission carries out appropriate consultations, including consultations with experts, in the course of its preparatory work. the commission must also keep parliament duly informed and provide it with the necessary documents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will prevent the artificial division of a region with a total population of about 1 million inhabitants into three areas (one with a local border crossing agreement with poland, one with a lithuanian agreement and one without any agreement because it does not form part of the border area) and will enable all residents to benefit from the simplification of local border crossing under the conditions laid down in the regulation.
in writing. − with this unprecedented decision to amend the regulation to meet the needs of a non-eu country's region, the eu is making a special gesture of goodwill towards russia. i hope that this decision will contribute to the development of contacts between ordinary people, so that in the long run the kaliningrad region will become a test-bed for european modernisation, the envy of other russian regions. in response, i hope that the rf will step up cooperation with the relevant eu countries in areas such as the fight against organised crime and smuggling (especially cigarettes produced in the kaliningrad region and fuel), so that we finally see progress in cooperation on the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in the kaliningrad region, in joint projects such as the euroregion nemunas. i would also like to remind you that the kaliningrad region occupies a special place in russia's military strategy. knowing that this is a prelude to larger-scale solutions, i would point out that the visa-free regime is not an eu commitment but a decision based on the progress and reforms of the country requesting it, which would allow it to be safely introduced. i find it difficult to imagine a visa-free regime with a state whose government structures shelter individuals accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity, such as in the case of mr golovatov, while russia refuses to cooperate in cases of this category, such as the january 13 and medinnytsky murders. i therefore look forward to a genuine strategic partnership from the russian side as well. at the same time, it is important not to leave behind the esc countries such as georgia, moldova and ukraine, which are making great progress in implementing european reforms.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it is necessary to remove artificial and unjustified obstacles to people living on both sides of the european union's external borders. a particular role in this respect is played by the member states, which must conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring third countries as soon as possible. the implementation of these measures will create favourable conditions for the development of long-term cultural, social and economic links between the people of the whole region. i believe that this new version of the regulation will help to develop better neighbourly relations between the eu and russia. it is also a clear demonstration of the eu's commitment to the principle of freedom of movement and to the consistent and active support of the right of people to move about by boat.
in writing. − i have supported this document and the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, and in particular the council decision to accept the application for accession, but the commission must strictly and objectively monitor the further preparations for accession and help the croatian authorities to implement the commitments and obligations undertaken during the negotiations. the commission is also required to keep parliament regularly informed on the progress of the croatian authorities in meeting their commitments so that the country can assume all the obligations of membership of the union on 1 july 2013 upon accession.
in writing. − today, the european parliament adopted a historic decision approving the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union and the council's decision to accept croatia's application for accession. i hope that croatia will continue to make good progress in implementing the negotiating commitments it has made. i am pleased that lithuania, my country of origin, and croatia will be linked by historical ties, as croatia's accession to the eu is scheduled for 1 july 2013, during the lithuanian presidency of the council of the eu. i hope that we will soon be able to welcome our croatian parliamentary observer colleagues to the european parliament.
in writing. − i support this resolution expressing my support for the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. however, the commission must continue to exercise strict and objective control over the further preparation for accession. croatia must ensure the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the proper implementation of economic and legal requirements. in this context, it is essential to ensure that the croatian authorities are given full assistance to enable them to properly implement the commitments and obligations undertaken during the negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because accession negotiations with croatia have been concluded and because, at the same time, the negotiation process, which lasted almost six years, and the preparations, which took several years, have brought about a major change in the political, economic and cultural environment of the country. but the reforms must continue, and i believe that this process is not yet complete and should continue with the same energy and effort after the negotiations and accession to the european union. a positive outcome of this process will strengthen the support and confidence of croatian citizens for eu membership and encourage people to participate in the referendum and to vote in favour of signing the accession treaty. i support the signing of the accession treaty and all eu member states should complete the ratification procedure in time.
in writing. − the example of croatia once again demonstrates that eu integration is one of the most effective methods of economic, political and even social transformation. eu enlargement is a complex and determined but mutually beneficial instrument for peace, stability, reconciliation and development, and this effect is not limited to one country but has a regional impact. i hope that croatia's success will encourage the rest of the countries in the region to take this path with energy. even after the signing of the eu accession treaties of the republic of croatia on 8 and 9 december in the framework of the eec, it is necessary not to relax but to continue political and economic reforms, in particular in the areas of strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and organised crime, protecting human rights and improving the business environment, and building friendly and stable relations with neighbours. the eu must also make adequate preparations for croatia's accession, take it into account in the 2013 multiannual financial framework and include croatia in the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. i hope that the ratification procedures in the eu countries will go smoothly and that croatia will be ready to become the 28th member state as planned, from 1 july 2013, during the lithuanian presidency of the council of the eu.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the accession of croatia to the european union. it is to be welcomed that croatia has finally successfully completed a historic stage in its eu integration process. the accession negotiations with croatia were concluded, bringing to a close a negotiation process that had lasted almost six years and several years of preparation. through political, economic, social and cultural reforms, croatia has become a strong and mature democratic state. it should be noted that eu accession should not be seen as the end of the process, but as a step towards further and permanent administrative and economic modernisation of the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the rules of procedure introducing the obligation to declare any other gainful activity or income. i believe that members of the european parliament, in the exercise of their mandate, must be guided by and observe the general principles of behaviour such as selflessness, decency, transparency, diligence, honour, responsibility and respect for the reputation of the european parliament, and that members of the european parliament must therefore act solely in the common interest and neither seek nor receive any direct or indirect financial advantage or any other form of remuneration.
in writing. − although the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has made the european parliament the equivalent of a legislative institution, especially in shaping the eu budget, the media and voters are probably talking more about our salaries and benefits and the scandals associated with them than about the work itself. the fact that meps can receive any salary or other income from other sources without having to declare or pay anyone is also not covered. meps are paid several or even dozens of times more than many of their constituents, so it seems hypocritical to talk about reducing poverty in europe one day and then not declare additional income the next. i agree with the amendments to the rules of procedure to introduce an obligation to declare any other gainful activity or income. however, it is important that these provisions are implemented in practice and not remain an ambition. on the other hand, i think we could go further and ban meps from receiving extra pay, as has been done in some member states' national parliaments. surely we would not be destitute if we lived on a salary?
in writing. − the european semester is an institutional process, led by the eu institutions, for greater coordination between member states in implementing the eu strategy, especially in the macroeconomic field. the european semester has two objectives: to monitor the member states' compliance with budgetary discipline and, at the same time, to ensure that the europe 2020 strategy is well implemented by providing the necessary financial means for its implementation. i voted in favour of the document because the introduction of the european semester should involve the european parliament and national parliaments more and better and should change their work. the introduction of the european semester and the closer coordination of economic and fiscal policies should leave eu member states with sufficient competence and flexibility to implement an effective budgetary, economic and social strategy, appropriate to the europe 2020 strategy, which can pursue distribution and development while ensuring an adequate level of public services and infrastructure for eu citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the lessons of the past, if well learnt, can be a bridge to a more successful future. in assessing the experience of the first wave of the crisis, the eu institutions and the member states should not only look at the future differently, but also look at the situation differently today, but this is often lacking. but the world has changed a lot in the last few years. the directives adopted are not effective enough to meet the new and increasingly old challenges in the economic, financial and social spheres that arise every day. the scale of unemployment in the union countries is a key issue on the european union's agenda today. we must implement as quickly as possible the urgent measures and programmes which will enable us to reduce unemployment by at least a third in the shortest possible time. i believe that the commission must in the near future envisage and present concrete plans which include measures to make progress towards the main objectives of today and the immediate future: job creation, innovation, education, energy and social inclusion.
in writing. − the proper and smooth functioning of the single market is an essential condition for achieving the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital within the eu and for ensuring its economic development. the year 2012 will mark a milestone - the 20th anniversary of the single market - and it is important to know and understand how the single market will develop in the future and what the concerns and expectations of the market participants are. the single market forum, organised in october this year on the initiative of the commission and the polish presidency, showed that many legal and administrative obstacles to the smooth functioning of the single market still remain. i believe that the implementation of the single market act should be monitored at the highest political level and that the commission should regularly review the implementation of this act and the transposition of the relevant legislation into national law in the member states and report back. i support the call in the resolution to complete the digital market and to overcome the remaining technical barriers to cross-border trade and the provision of services, in particular by improving the mutual recognition of electronic identities, electronic signatures and electronic documents. i would like to stress the importance of establishing common principles for public procurement at eu level, which would remove the many administrative and bureaucratic obstacles that have persisted so far and would provide more opportunities, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, to develop activities on a cross-border basis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the single market forum would be organised on a regular basis, giving businesses, citizens and local and regional authorities the opportunity to participate directly in and influence the further development of the single market. the european single market makes a positive contribution to innovation, based on coordinated initiatives by the commission and strong commitments by the member states, it will open up new opportunities for businesses, especially innovative smes, and significantly enhance job creation and social cohesion, as well as promoting sustainable economic growth and helping to meet the needs of eu citizens and consumers. national governments, regional and local bodies, businesses, trade unions and non-governmental organisations need to work together to ensure that the rules of the single market are effectively applied on the ground to citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i support this resolution. first of all, i believe that the single market forum should be held regularly. only in this way will businesses, citizens and local and regional authorities be able to participate directly in the further development of the single market and play an active part in its development. the single market has brought many benefits to the people of europe. it has created wealth and jobs. however, many citizens, consumers and smes still lack sufficient information and awareness of their rights and opportunities in the single market. in this context, i believe that the commission must draw up and adopt as soon as possible a charter of citizens' rights, which would lay down the rights and obligations of citizens in the single market. this charter should be addressed to all citizens who move, work, buy and sell across borders. only through the implementation of these measures will there be a better mutual communication and effective means of exercising their rights.
in writing. - it is symbolic that we are commemorating both world aids day and the 20th anniversary of the death of the singer freddie mercury, the most famous person to have died from the disease. i support the european parliament's position and proposals for a more effective fight against this disease, both in terms of detection and prevention and in terms of human rights. however, i would point out that our resolution does not deal with the single mode of transmission of hiv - injection drug use. in my country, lithuania, more than 70 percent of all people living with hiv have been infected in this way. i am therefore convinced that in order to be successful in the fight against hiv and aids, member states must integrate this into their policies and strategies to combat drug use.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the eu and ukraine are invited to sign an association agreement, which requires ukraine to implement a number of measures in order to join the eu. the association agreement will have a positive impact on the business environment in ukraine by establishing common rules and standards for eu and ukrainian business operators, thus ensuring greater predictability and financial security of investments in ukraine. the eu strongly supports a stable and democratic ukraine that respects the principles of a social and inclusive market economy, the rule of law (including independent courts), human rights and the protection of minorities, and where fundamental rights are guaranteed. ukraine's efforts to build not only political stability but also a credible environment of political pluralism, as well as to foster democratic freedoms and to promote internal reforms, will ensure a more rapid and smooth development of the process of possible ukrainian integration into europe in the future.
in writing. - i voted yes. ukraine has been at a crossroads for some time. it is important that the political elite of the country does not lack the political will to maintain the european direction, not only in economic terms but also in terms of values. i hope that ukraine will soon implement the necessary reforms in the justice sector, ensure mr tymoshenko's right to appeal and allow the entire opposition to participate freely in political processes and elections. on the other hand, the eu should support ukraine's european aspirations. ukraine is one of the most advanced countries in the eastern partnership and its success story will inspire other eastern partnership countries to follow suit. i hope that eu leaders will give the go-ahead for an association agreement later this year.
in writing. − the customs union is one of the main pillars of the free movement of goods, economic development and growth of the internal market. customs play an important role in protecting the eu's financial interests, as the import of counterfeit and pirated goods into the eu leads to lost revenue and infringements of intellectual property rights, and counterfeit products can pose a serious risk to the safety and health of european consumers. customs today are primarily faced with increasing import, export and transit volumes, although resources remain limited, and it is therefore of particular importance to ensure the efficient and effective management of customs procedures. i agree that the modernised customs code adopted in 2008 is essential to improve the current situation and to ensure a smooth, well-functioning and simple customs system. i believe that e-customs, and in particular centralised customs clearance, is one of the most important aspects of customs modernisation and simplification, which would enhance the eu's economic competitiveness and allow for the development of reliable trade relations with third countries.
in writing. − in 2013, all member states' customs authorities must introduce uniform it equipment and, as they cannot do so, it is proposed to postpone this date. companies also claim that it will be difficult for them to adapt to the new rules so quickly. the commission has made such a proposal. i think this is an important measure to simplify and really harmonise customs procedures in order to contribute to strengthening the european economy. i also agree that the widespread application of simplified customs procedures for imports, which aims to reduce customs formalities and controls before goods are released, is one of the most important components of eu customs policy. more than 71% of all customs procedures were simplified, but these procedures resulted in unjustified losses to the eu budget and in irregularities related to eu trade policy. the competitiveness of the european economy is of paramount importance, especially if the internal market is to be revived. customs has an important role to play in improving and influencing competitiveness, as simplification of customs legislation and promotion of electronic customs facilitate economic growth. to fulfil its full potential, customs must be modern, cooperative, responsive and active.
in writing. i am very pleased with this document and congratulate the rapporteur on such a great and important work for the citizens of the european union. the european protection order is a major step forward in the establishment of an effective framework for law enforcement cooperation in criminal matters. it is a very important instrument because it concerns a very sensitive area: the prevention of crimes against the health, life and psychological and sexual integrity of the person, as well as the protection of people who have already been victims of crime. i have always advocated the safe and proper promotion of free movement of persons within the european union, because, while giving eu citizens the right to move and work freely in any member state, we must also ensure their safety and the protection of other related rights. this is why the creation of a legal framework for the effective protection of individuals is a very important task for us as eu legislators, and i am pleased to see that we are making rapid progress in this task. it is for this reason that we will be awaiting here in the european parliament in due course the commission's proposal on mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters, which we could consider and which is essential for the effective functioning of the european protection order.
in fact, after long discussions and negotiations both in the european parliament itself and with the council, we are trying to find a solution to the directive on a single residence and work permit. the negotiations took a long time because we tried to find the best possible solution that would be acceptable to all third-country workers who live and work legally in our european union countries. although not everything was agreed, i believe that the final agreement on this directive succeeded in including a provision on the portability of pensions. that is commendable. it is a pity that we have not been able to reach a common decision within the european parliament itself on the inclusion of certain categories of workers in the content of this directive. i mean seasonal workers, intra-company transfers, asylum seekers. unfortunately, this directive does not fully enshrine the principle of legal equality for all third-country workers. i would like to congratulate and thank the commission, as a member of the commission, for the fact that the commission has put forward proposals on both seasonal workers and workers transferred within companies, and that there is an intense debate in parliament at the moment. i hope we can find the right solution and reach a common decision. i would therefore like to hope that in future, when we decide on migration policy, we will recognise that workers from third countries must have the same rights as citizens of the european union, provided they are living and working legally, because their contribution to the economic growth of our countries, to the growth of our social welfare, is inevitable. so i would strongly suggest that we understand this and understand this, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mathieu, in conclusion, because he has really put a lot of work and effort into finding a common solution.
first of all, i congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-crafted report, as this directive is indeed a major step forward in establishing common standards for the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. it is not enough to know your rights, it is essential that they are respected and that they can be used in a real situation. the lack of respect for procedural rights can seriously undermine the integrity of criminal proceedings and can lead to judicial errors. the purpose of this directive is therefore to ensure that a case is tried in a fair manner in the person's country of origin or in another member state of the european union. it is also necessary to respect fundamental procedural rights, such as the right to consult a lawyer or the right to have recourse to interpretation or translation services, where appropriate. in order to ensure a fair criminal trial and the effective exercise of the right of defence, it is important that member states ensure that both suspects and accused persons are provided with sufficient information about the charges against them, the nature of the charges and the grounds for the charges. it is particularly important that this directive should cover the right to information not only in relation to rights relating to legal advice or legal aid but also in relation to rights of contact with close relatives, employers or consular services.
i would like to draw attention to the restrictions on the rights of municipalities that they have experienced under the current coalition of conservatives and liberals governing lithuania. in the face of the crisis and the inaction of the government, some municipalities are trying to provide financial support to their residents on their own. unfortunately, last week a government representative demanded that vilnius regional municipality reverse a 2009 decision that subsidized heating costs for residents. this is a government interference with the competences of municipalities and a serious violation of the european charter of municipalities. not the first, i'm afraid. so far in my country, municipalities have not been able to manage their finances and land independently. even the smallest parcel of land for municipal purposes requires a separate government permit. i ask the european committee of the regions, the local authorities and local government organisations to use the platform of the european parliament to defend the rights of local authorities which have been ignored by the current lithuanian government.
the solutions proposed by the heads of state or government of the european union are certainly not the only ones or the best, but they are necessary and desirable. but they are not enough and they are too late. yes, the market reacted after the decisions were announced, but i am sure that this is not the reaction that would lead to a recovery and expansion of the markets. it's more like the state where the open fire is extinguished, but the fireplace is still burning. at the same time, i would like to point out that it is not the first time that european states and their leaders have not responded quickly enough to the ever-changing challenges and problems we are facing. the most important thing is not to put out the fire, which is important today, but much more important is not to let it go out, and that is what all the action and efforts of the european council, the commission and our parliament must be directed towards.
mr. chairman, please! i want to express my moderate optimism about the outcome of the summit. i am glad that we have taken a step towards a 'europe of solidarity'. but it is only a small step, because there can be no 'europe of solidarity' when the two big countries try to dictate every decision. while the rich farmers continue to receive four times the subsidies of the poorer ones. and most importantly, 'europe in solidarity' should have a trans-material dimension, meaning that we must return to our christian roots and values, which will strengthen europe not for a few years but for a century - which i wish for everyone before christmas.
in writing. − the iter project, launched in 1988, aims to demonstrate that fusion energy could be a highly useful source of energy in the eu, with the long-term reliability and diversity of energy sources. given global energy demand and the economic, political and environmental risks associated with reliance on fossil fuel sources, fusion energy can make a significant contribution to a diverse, sustainable and secure energy supply system within a few decades. the construction and operation of iter in europe will also bring significant direct benefits to industry and the economy, which will increase european competitiveness and strengthen industry. i voted in favour of allocating eur 1300 million from the eu budget for the commitment appropriations needed to finance the implementation of the iter project in 2012-13.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the iter project requires a further eur 1 300 million in commitment appropriations from the union budget for 2012-13. the european parliament and the council have taken note of the commission's proposal to amend the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement relating to the multiannual financial framework in order to allocate eur 1 300 million from the eu budget to the commitment appropriations needed to finance the implementation of the iter project in 2012-13. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to cover the additional costs of eur 1 300 million for the implementation of the iter project in 2012-13.
in writing. − i believe that it is appropriate and necessary to allocate additional funding from the eu budget for the implementation of the iter fusion project in 2012-13 as the results of iter are of great importance not only for the eu but also for the international context. it is worth noting that the construction and operation of iter is a huge challenge for science, engineering and technology. only through this project will fusion energy be able to become a highly useful energy source, ensuring the long-term reliability of energy supply and the diversity of energy sources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, whereby parliament approved the council's position on draft amending budget no 7/2011 without amendments. the purpose of this amending budget is to mobilise eur 38 million from the eu solidarity fund to help alleviate the consequences of the earthquake in the murcia region of spain (eur 21 million from the fund) and the floods in the veneto region of italy (eur 17 million from the fund). the commission estimated the direct damage in the region of murcia at eur 842,8 million, based on the calculations provided by the spanish authorities. in the case of the veneto region, the direct damage was estimated at eur 3 717 million. i agree that the eu solidarity fund should be used to ensure that the regions affected by these major natural disasters receive urgent assistance as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as draft amending budget no 7/2011 for the general budget 2011 aims to use the commitment and payment appropriations of the eu solidarity fund to provide eur 38 million for the mitigation of the earthquake in the murcia region of spain and the floods in the veneto region of italy. draft amending budget no 7/2011 aims to formally incorporate this amending budget into the 2011 budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, in which parliament gave its assent to the commission proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for spain and italy. this decision mobilises, in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, eur 38 million from the european union solidarity fund, in commitment and payment appropriations, to provide for the mitigation of the consequences of the earthquake in the region of murcia in spain (eur 21 million from the fund) and the floods in the veneto region of italy (eur 17 million from the fund). the commission estimated the direct damage in the region of murcia at eur 842,8 million, based on the calculations provided by the spanish authorities. in the case of the veneto region, the direct damage was estimated at eur 3717 million. i agree that the eu solidarity fund should be used to ensure that the regions affected by these major natural disasters receive urgent assistance as soon as possible.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the needs of spain and italy. spain has submitted an application for support from the solidarity fund to cover the damage caused by the earthquake in murcia on 11 may 2011. the city of lork was rocked by two consecutive earthquakes with a magnitude of 5.2 that killed nine people and injured about 300. residential buildings, businesses, public buildings, cultural heritage sites, road networks and key infrastructure were severely affected by the disaster. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the measure is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the damage caused by the disaster. meanwhile, italy applied for the solidarity fund following the devastating rains on 31 october and 2 november 2010 in the veneto region of north-east italy. the effects of the heavy rains were compounded by the warm mediterranean winds melting the snow on the nearby mountains. the accident caused significant damage to road and infrastructure networks, agriculture, businesses and residential buildings. according to the definition in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, a disaster for which aid is required is classified as a major natural disaster. after verifying that all applications fulfilled the eligibility criteria laid down in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed (and i supported this proposal) to mobilise the solidarity fund for spain and italy.
in writing. - i support the decision to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for spain in response to the natural disaster caused by the earthquake and for italy in response to the natural disaster caused by the floods. it is worth noting that many people lost their homes as a result of these disasters, and that major infrastructure and roads, industry and agriculture were severely affected. in view of the scale of these natural disasters and the enormous losses caused, it is therefore necessary to show solidarity at eu level with the people of the regions affected by natural disasters and to provide them with some financial support from the solidarity fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy, with a view to allocating an amount of eur 3 918 850 in commitment and payment appropriations. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall provide support for and facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns linked to globalisation and as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. in february 2011, italy submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 323 enterprises active in the construction sector in the region of trentino-alto adige. italy claims that its construction sector has been severely affected by the global financial crisis. there has been a sharp reduction in lending to the construction sector and to individuals, and a decline in demand for new homes due to a decline in consumer confidence and a lack of cash. the commission has assessed the application to be eligible under the egf regulation. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf in respect of the financial contribution requested by italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − on 7 february 2011, italy submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 323 enterprises active in the construction sector in the region of trentino-alto adige (south tyrol) and supplemented it by additional information up to 6 july 2011. i voted in favour of this application, since it meets the eligibility criteria for a financial contribution as set out in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and since the commission proposed to mobilise the egf.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right to information in criminal proceedings. the european union has set itself the objective of fostering and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. in accordance with the conclusions of the european council in tampere on 15 and 16 october 1999, the principle of mutual recognition should become the basis for judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters in the european union, as enhancing the mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions and ensuring the necessary harmonisation of legislation would facilitate cooperation between public authorities and the judicial protection of the rights of individuals. the degree of implementation of the principle of mutual recognition depends to a large extent on various criteria, including mechanisms for safeguarding the rights of suspects or accused persons and common minimum standards necessary to facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition. this is one of the foundations of the rule of law and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that this directive should apply to suspects and accused persons irrespective of their legal status, nationality or citizenship. the specific conditions and rules for the provision of information on an arrest or detention should be laid down by member states in their national law, subject to the proviso that the exercise of this right should not interfere with the proper conduct of criminal proceedings.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council aims to establish common minimum standards for the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the proposal aims to improve the rights of suspects or accused persons. the establishment of common minimum requirements for these rights should facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition, thereby improving judicial cooperation between the member states of the eu. on 30 november 2009, the council adopted an action plan to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, which calls for the adoption of measures relating to the right to interpretation and interpretation, the right to information on rights and information on charges, the right to legal advice and legal aid, the right to information of relatives, employers and consular authorities and the specific measures for the protection of vulnerable suspects or accused persons. i voted in favour of this document, which is the second measure of the action plan (the first measure concerned the right to interpretation and translation), which will help to better ensure the rights of suspects or accused persons throughout the eu and will help to strengthen judicial cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because suspects and accused persons must know their procedural rights and they must be respected, as this is the only way to ensure a fair and impartial trial. both suspects and accused persons shall be given all necessary information concerning the charges against them, the nature and the grounds of the charges. all member states should therefore cooperate as effectively as possible to ensure common standards of the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. the provisions of this directive set out minimum requirements. member states may grant more rights than those provided for in this directive in order to ensure a higher level of protection in cases not specifically provided for in this directive. this directive therefore aims, in particular, to promote the right to liberty, the right to a fair trial and the rights of the defence. the proper implementation of the main provisions of this directive will significantly improve the effectiveness of the rights of suspects and accused persons by ensuring that they are informed of their rights.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as an example of a guideline for the communication on the rights of persons detained under a european arrest warrant. the sole purpose of this example is to show what a rights notice could look like, in order to make it easier for national authorities to draw up such a notice at national level. member states are not obliged to use this model. when drawing up their rights notice, they may amend this template to comply with the applicable national rules and add additional useful information. i agree that the competent authorities should inform the suspect or accused person without delay, orally or in writing, of the rights under national law which are essential to ensure a fair trial, as provided for in the directive. in order to ensure that the suspect or accused person exercises those rights effectively in practice, that information should be provided without delay during the proceedings and at the latest before the first formal questioning of the suspect or accused person by the police or another competent authority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because this directive will ensure that every suspect and accused person, regardless of his or her legal status, nationality or citizenship, has the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings in all eu countries. it should be noted that the right to information in criminal proceedings is one of the many means of ensuring a fair trial that aims to increase confidence in the common eu area of justice. in this context, i consider it appropriate to lay down at least minimum requirements which would facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition and improve judicial cooperation between the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of karel pinxten as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of mr henrik otb as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of juan-francisco corona ramón as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of ville itälä by the council as a member of the court of auditors. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of pietro russo as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of mr vitor manuel da silva caldeira as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the nomination of hans gustaf wessberg as a member of the court of auditors, as proposed by the council. i believe that his description of his life and work experience is in line with the requirements for candidates for the court of auditors laid down in the eu treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european protection order (epo) which is a new legal instrument that will provide continuous protection of victims of violence when they move from one member state to another. i support the position of the rapporteur that the new legal instrument will significantly help those who suffer from violence and wish to lead a normal life. the epo was first conceived to be a tool to protect victims of gender violence, but it will also cover victims of any crime, such as victims of human trafficking, genital mutilation, organised crime and terrorism, as long as they have an identified perpetrator. an epo may also be requested to safeguard relatives of a beneficiary of a protection order. an epo would only apply to protection measures taken on criminal matters, but it will be complemented by separate legislation on the mutual recognition of protection afforded by civil law. i agree that this instrument has to be further developed but it is a very important first step to show that the eu stands strongly against gender violence or any other type of violence, and will continue to do so in the future.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the draft european protection order directive is based on the initiative of 12 eu member states. the adoption of this directive will establish measures that will enable the executing state to continue to ensure the protection of individuals against the criminal activities of another person that may endanger their life, physical and psychological integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual integrity. the main objective is to prevent new criminal activity, as well as to reduce the consequences of previous criminal acts and to provide better protection for victims. this directive focuses on protection measures applicable in criminal matters and, in view of the different legal traditions of the member states in this field, it will need to be complemented in the future by a similar mechanism for the mutual recognition of protection measures applicable in civil matters. the council has undertaken to ensure that the provisions of this directive complement those of the european protection order directive and that the common scope of these two instruments allows member states to cooperate, irrespective of the nature of their national systems, in order to provide victims with the maximum possible protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it represents a major step forward in the european parliament towards the creation of a uniform system of protection for victims of crime throughout the european union. the european protection order is a document that commits law enforcement authorities in all eu countries to cooperate in the future in the protection of victims or potential victims of crime. this means that, if law enforcement authorities decide that potential victims of crime or victims of crime are in need of special protection to prevent an imminent or even greater danger in the future, the decision would be valid throughout the european union. thus, for example, if lithuanian law enforcement authorities decide that a person's life, physical, psychological or sexual integrity is in real danger and therefore grant him protection, their decision would also be valid in another eu member state. therefore, if a person travels or is threatened with relocation to another eu country, the foreign law enforcement authorities would take over and provide protection for that person in their own country.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document because this directive will establish measures which will enable the executing state to continue to ensure the protection of individuals against the criminal activities of another person which may endanger their life, physical and psychological integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual integrity. the main objective is to prevent new criminal activity, as well as to reduce the consequences of previous criminal acts and to provide better protection for victims. our main objective is to strengthen the rights of victims in the eu.
in writing. − criminal law is essentially a matter for the member states. however, the implementation of a single area of justice inevitably requires the harmonisation of certain measures, in particular those relating to the safeguarding of the rights of individuals. the european protection order is precisely what will ensure adequate protection for victims not only in the country of the proceedings but also in other eu countries. i welcome the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the document and look forward to its swifter implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, due to the transnational nature of the cases, their scale or their potential impact, individual member states are not in a position to adequately protect persons at risk. however, in a common area of justice without internal borders, the victim must be protected against a new criminal offence or the consequences of a previous criminal offence must be reduced in relation to him. therefore, in order to protect the life, physical and psychological integrity, dignity, personal freedom and other rights of the victim, it is necessary to establish a legal framework to ensure that eu protection orders are issued and enforced in all member states. in particular, the level of protection granted to a person in one member state must be maintained and granted accordingly in the other member state to which he moves. to achieve this, it is necessary to establish a common set of measures applicable at eu level, which establish obligations and sanctions for the person who poses a risk.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the eu's efforts to develop a comprehensive immigration policy. the european council of tampere on 15 and 16 october 1999 stressed that the european union should ensure a level playing field for third-country nationals legally residing in the territory of the member states and that they should be granted rights and obligations similar to those enjoyed by eu citizens. in view of the demographic challenges facing the eu, legal migration and a well-managed migration policy should help member states to meet current and future labour needs and contribute to the economic expansion and sustainable development of the eu member states. to achieve these objectives, this proposal aims to ensure equal rights for all third-country workers legally resident in a member state but not yet entitled to long-term resident status and to introduce a single application procedure for a single residence and work permit. such a single authorisation will enable member states to better manage and control the presence of third-country nationals on their territories for work purposes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the single residence and work permit directive is one of the first and most important steps forward in the european union's migration policy. we tried to find the best possible solution that would be acceptable to all third-country workers legally living and working in the european union, and this led to a fairly long discussion and negotiation with the council. unfortunately, we cannot find a common position within the european parliament itself on the inclusion of certain categories of workers in the content of this directive, i.e. seasonal workers, intra-corporate transferees, asylum seekers. for this reason, this directive will not be a framework directive, which was intended to simplify administrative procedures and regulate the entry and work of all third-country workers in the eu member states. this directive does not therefore fully enshrine the principle of legal equality for all third-country workers. although it was not possible to reach agreement on all the points, the final agreement on this directive managed to include a provision on the transferability of pensions and on the right of third-country workers to vocational training.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal, as one application procedure and one permit (to live and work) should be established for third-country nationals wishing to reside in a member state for work purposes, in order to reduce red tape, and it is also necessary to provide for common rights for all third-country workers legally resident in a member state. the general rights of third-country workers should be ensured by establishing areas where they are treated on an equal footing with nationals.
in writing. −when we admit workers from third countries, especially highly qualified professionals, to the european union, we must also provide them with the right conditions for authorisation and employment. reducing bureaucracy throughout the process and simplifying the process is therefore a positive step. i am glad that the council agrees with him.
in writing. − i believe that it is the duty of each member state to ensure the well-being and stability of its citizens. everyone must have access to quality and affordable education, social and health services. every citizen must feel like a full citizen. poverty and deprivation must be prevented and unemployment in the countries of the union reduced. only by taking proper care of its own nationals will each member state be able to ensure that third-country nationals also have the right conditions for working and living in its territory.
in writing. - by voting in favour, since the purpose of this proposal is to transpose into eu law the recommendations adopted under the agreement establishing the joint fisheries commission for the mediterranean and to amend council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006; these international conservation and management measures are already in place and binding on the eu and the member states. however, their transfer is necessary to allow those international instruments to be applied to natural or legal persons at eu level and to ensure legal certainty to that end.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is necessary to implement measures to ensure the sustainable management, conservation and enhancement of fisheries resources on a long-term basis worldwide. it is important to note that the eu is one of the key players in this area and therefore has a major responsibility to contribute more effectively to the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources. therefore, in order to ensure legal certainty, international conservation and management measures at eu level should apply to both natural and legal persons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution and supported the european parliament's position at second reading. currently, micro-entities are subject to the same rules as larger companies. the reporting rules applicable to micro-entities have been found to be disproportionate to their specific accounting needs, resulting in a cost burden that may interfere with the proper use of capital for production purposes. the commission proposal for a directive aims to simplify the business environment of micro-entities, and in particular the requirements for financial reporting, in order to promote their competitiveness and enable them to develop. the amendments to the directive should reduce the administrative burden, while still ensuring adequate protection and information for stakeholders, and allowing the reporting requirements of micro-entities to be aligned with the real needs of users and promoters. i agree with parliament's position that the commission should present a report on the situation of micro-entities no later than five years after the entry into force of the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the european parliament's position on the council's position on the amendments to the fourth enterprise directive. the amended directive lays down provisions for the annual accounts of certain types of companies relating to micro-entities. the european commission proposed amendments to this directive as early as 2009. the position adopted today by the european parliament proposes to clarify the provision allowing member states to exempt micro-entities from the general requirement to publish annual accounts, provided that balance sheet information is properly submitted to at least one designated competent authority under national law and provided that the information is transmitted to the business register. the european parliament also adopted a compromise agreement with the council which establishes new, higher thresholds for the criteria for classifying enterprises as small and medium-sized enterprises or micro-enterprises, respectively. thus, for undertakings whose balance sheet total does not exceed eur 350 000 per year and whose net turnover is eur 700 000 per year, the directive allows the derogation from the disclosure of balance sheet information provided for therein.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as it can be and sometimes is difficult for micro-entities to publish annual reports. at the same time, member states need to ensure that the requirements laid down in this directive are complied with. therefore, member states should be allowed to exempt micro-entities from the general requirement to publish annual accounts, provided that the balance sheet information is properly submitted to at least one designated competent authority under national law and provided that the information is transmitted to a business register where a copy of the document can be obtained on request. in this case, the obligation to publish all accounting documents under article 47 of directive 78/660/eec in accordance with article 3 (5) of directive 2009/101/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 september 2009 on the coordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and third parties, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 48 of the treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent does not apply. member states may, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3, provide for exemptions from certain requirements of this directive for companies which, at the balance sheet date, do not exceed the thresholds of two of the following three criteria (micro-entities): balance sheet total eur 350 000, net turnover eur 700 000, average number of employees in the financial year 10. in my view, it is necessary to reduce the administrative burden on micro-entities in accounting, as these entities are overburdened in some eu member states.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate to allow member states to exempt micro-entities from the general requirement to publish annual accounts, provided that the balance sheet information is properly presented under national law and that these companies do not exceed certain established criteria. the application of such an exemption will reduce the administrative burden on smes and simplify the business environment. furthermore, the relaxation of financial reporting requirements, taking into account the needs of smes, will increase the competitiveness of micro-entities and allow them to exploit their growth potential more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the financial management provisions applicable to certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the financial and budgetary crisis has led some member states to limit their budgets and may result in their failure to meet their commitments under the community's co-financing programmes (the structural and cohesion funds, the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european fisheries fund). these member states risk losing community support from the eafrd unless they provide evidence that they are allocating adequate national funding. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to temporarily increase the maximum eu co-financing rate for programmes implemented in member states receiving support under the european financial stability facility (currently greece, ireland and portugal) and in non-euro area member states under the balance of payments facility (currently latvia and romania). this temporary increase in community co-financing, granted at the request of the member state concerned, would help to reduce the amount of appropriate national financing needed for the financial years 2011 and 2012. i am convinced that this funding model would help to allocate the funds allocated to the rural economy and contribute to the overall economic recovery in these member states and, at the same time, in the eu as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution and supported the european parliament's position at first reading. in its proposal for a regulation, the commission proposes to temporarily increase the maximum union co-financing rate (up to 95%) for programmes implemented in member states benefiting from the european financial stability facility (greece, ireland and portugal) and in non-euro area member states under the balance of payments facility (latvia, hungary, romania). there is a risk that member states benefiting from financial assistance programmes may default due to budgetary constraints and lose community support (unless they provide evidence that they are allocating adequate national funding, at the latest 2 years after the initial payment year). the measure proposed by the commission will allow these member states to reduce their contribution to projects co-financed by the european union. this will allow earlier disbursement of funds already committed from the eu cohesion fund, the rural development fund or the fisheries fund, and the start of programmes delayed due to a lack of national funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal to temporarily increase the co-financing rate of the union for the support from the european agricultural fund for rural development to those member states which, as a result of the current economic and financial crisis, are unable to meet their commitments under the community co-financing programmes. without these temporary measures, member states such as greece, ireland, portugal, latvia and romania and their economies would be at risk of losing their long-term competitiveness. the european parliament therefore supported the commission's proposal to temporarily increase the co-financing rate of the union until 2013 in order to maintain the necessary level of investment in these countries and thus ensure their further economic development. such temporary measures will not affect the overall rural development allocation.
in writing. − the financial and budgetary crisis has led some member states to limit their budgets and may prevent them from meeting their commitments under community co-financing programmes (structural and cohesion funds, european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the edf). these member states risk losing community support from the eafrd unless they provide evidence that they are allocating adequate national funding as provided for in article 70 of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 no later than 2 years after the year of initial payment (n+2 rule). in the light of these circumstances, the commission proposes to temporarily increase the maximum union co-financing rate for programmes implemented in member states benefiting from the european financial stability facility (currently greece, ireland and portugal) and in non-euro area member states under the balance of payments facility (currently latvia and romania). this temporary increase in community co-financing, granted at the request of the member state concerned, would help to reduce the amount of adequate national financing needed for the financial years 2011 and 2011. i have supported this document because it would help to allocate the funds allocated to the rural economy and contribute to the general economic recovery in these member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because some countries, because of the financial and economic crisis, are unable to meet their obligations in the implementation of community co-financing programmes and are therefore at risk of losing the support they are entitled to. in order to protect those states, i believe it is appropriate to increase the maximum rate of union co-financing at least temporarily. this would not only reduce the amount of national funding but also provide a significant contribution to the restoration of economic stability in countries experiencing or threatened with serious financial stability problems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on barriers to trade and investment. open and fair trade is the best way to ensure and maintain a level playing field for european companies competing at global level. the commission must take the initiative to eliminate or at least reduce the restrictive effects of non-tariff barriers on the ability of european firms to enter foreign markets. i agree with the rapporteur that this must be a key priority for eu trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy. the commission should raise the issue of non-tariff barriers with all the eu's trading partners, and it is particularly important that it addresses this issue with the strategic partners with whom the eu has the largest trade. the eu also needs to carefully review its own trade measures in order to remove all illegal barriers to open and free trade and to become a true leader in tackling non-tariff barriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu companies still face significant obstacles when operating in third countries. one of the main problems remains non-tariff barriers, which encompass all trade restrictive measures on imports other than customs duties (tariffs). non-tariff barriers include direct factors affecting prices (such as export subsidies or rebates, countervailing or anti-dumping duties, currency manipulation, import valuation methods, additional customs duties, unjustified standards and verification procedures) and indirect factors affecting prices (such as the granting of import licences, import quotas and so-called voluntary export restrictions). the eu's trade policy should, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, give regulatory priority to the removal or reduction of unjustified non-tariff barriers and other regulatory barriers applied by countries that are key strategic partners of the eu through regulatory dialogue. it is also necessary to resolve the accessibility of public procurement to eu companies in third countries. the procurement procedures of the eu's strategic partners are generally not open to foreign participants and still have relatively few international commitments, with the eu being much more open than other countries in this area. eu law allows european and foreign companies to participate in public procurement without discrimination, and the eu needs to step up its efforts to reach agreements with the union's main trading partners to allow european companies to participate in public procurement in third countries on fair and impartial terms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to draw attention to the trade and investment barriers that prevent european union companies from entering third country markets. this report focuses in particular on so-called non-tariff barriers which have a direct or indirect impact on the prices of goods. such barriers may include export subsidies or rebates, manipulation of the exchange rate, lengthy customs procedures, unjustified standards and verification procedures, as well as the setting of import licences, import quotas or export restrictions. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission, which is responsible for international negotiations on behalf of the eu, to step up its fight against non-tariff barriers in the world trade forums. parliament also called on the commission to pay greater attention to ensuring that free trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries respect the principle of reciprocity in relation to market access, i.e. that they are mutually beneficial for both parties to the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the eu should actively defend its industry against violations of agreed rules, wto standards and principles by its trading partners, where necessary, using all the means at its disposal, including multilateral and bilateral dispute settlement systems and trade defence measures compatible with the wto. one of the regulatory priorities of the new eu trade policy under the europe 2020 strategy should be the removal or reduction of unjustified non-tariff barriers and other regulatory barriers imposed by countries that are key strategic partners of the eu through regulatory dialogue. i believe that any obstacles arising from inconsistent application of bilateral and multilateral trade rules are not justified. the regulatory dialogue should take into account the right of all states to strengthen human rights, environmental rules, social rules and public health. the commission should clearly distinguish between non-tariff barriers that lead to unfair distortions of competition and those that reflect legitimate public policy objectives, in particular those relating to public health and the environment. requiring the application of the principle of reciprocal market access to industrialized and developing countries should be an integral part of the eu's trade strategy as much as the removal or reduction of non-tariff barriers.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that the trade and investment barriers faced by the european services sectors need to be given special attention in the light of the current economic situation. it should be noted that non-tariff measures and various crisis measures are of particular importance in view of the higher value added of the services sector and the eu's position as the largest exporter of services. it is essential that the eu actively defends its industry and demands that the eu's main strategic partners remove or at least reduce the scope of unjustified non-tariff barriers and other regulatory measures.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, tomorrow the sakharov prize for freedom of thought will be awarded to representatives from the arab spring, from tunisia to egypt, from libya and syria. unfortunately not all of them will be with us tomorrow. our syrian friends are still fighting for their rights and therefore cannot be with us here in strasbourg. but honourable members, the arab spring is a good example of the universality of human rights and of peoples’ aspiration to live in democratic systems. this year’s winners embody the dramatic changes that have defined the past 12 months, and i wish to pay tribute to them now. whether through dramatic acts of self-sacrifice, endurance in prison, or daily confronting injustice, they remind us of the true meaning of courage. by drawing cartoons or organising online they remind us that courage manifests itself in many different ways. it is about speaking the truth and refusing to be intimidated. this is the case, too, for this year’s nobel prize winner from yemen, mrs karman, whom i had the opportunity to meet with just a few days ago. she deserves all the recognition she is now receiving as a result of her struggle for women’s rights. it is also the case of the group of afghan women whom i met at the beginning of the international afghanistan conference in bonn and who are a real inspiration to us. speaking out fearlessly is something that has defined the careers of many in this house, and none more so than president buzek. under him, parliament’s work on human rights has significantly increased and i would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his dedication. 2011 has been a particularly active year for human rights in parliament. the subcommittee on human rights, chaired first by heidi hautala, and now by barbara lochbihler, has developed a great number of activities, including the de keyser report on democracy, which inspired me, in particular on the idea of the global and coherent approach to human rights and to democratisation and civic participation. the historic developments in our neighbourhood have significantly advanced human rights. the bringing down of longstanding repressive regimes has led to the formation of new governments and to free and fair elections. the continuing violent crackdowns in syria, repression in belarus, and protracted conflicts, including in the middle east, require us to keep up the pressure. the events of this year have served to highlight the vital links between human rights and democracy. it has led to a new approach for the european union, which aims to provide greater support to partners engaged in building what i have termed ‘deep democracy’. that is where the right to vote is accompanied by effective freedom of thought, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of religion or belief, underpinned by impartial justice, public security from accountable protection forces, and access to a competent and non-corrupt civil service. we have also continued using our financial instruments to promote and protect human rights. in 2011 the european instrument for democracy and human rights funded more than 1 200 operations in more than 130 countries. even in the toughest environments, where basic rights and freedoms are the most repressed, we have been able to provide assistance to civil society. to give just a few examples: our funding has been used to fight media and cyber censorship to keep information flowing out of syria or north korea; in uzbekistan, belarus and egypt it provided legal defence for hundreds of political opponents arbitrarily imprisoned. it also supported their families and their lawyers, who risked imprisonment for taking up their case. it supported the rehabilitation victims, those having undergone torture in zimbabwe or sri lanka, and those affected by the campaigns of mass rape in east congo or libya. and it supported democratic transition in morocco, tunisia, ivory coast, burma myanmar and libya, also helping in the support and observation of elections in niger, peru and zambia. we have also kept up its work to advance human rights on the multilateral stage in 2011. the un special session on libya, which made the historic recommendations to suspend libya from the human rights council, was a turning point in allowing this to respond to emergencies. several times this year the eu raised the human rights situation in syria, in the hrc and in the general assembly, building an alliance of countries from all regions, including the arab world. our role was instrumental in establishing the independent commission of inquiry on the human rights situation in syria. in june, we secured the adoption of a human rights council resolution on the human rights situation in belarus, with whom we have tried to engage to improve its human rights record. i continue to highlight the human rights situations in north korea and in burma myanmar, reflecting the developments on the ground. i expect the new civilian government in burma myanmar will push ahead with political reforms and re-engage with the international community. i hope aung san suu kyi will finally be able to come to this parliament to receive the sakharov prize that she was awarded 21 years ago. we continue our efforts to build consensus on freedom of religion or belief. i have also maintained my focus on promoting the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people through the implementation of the eu’s toolbox. promoting and protecting the universal rights of freedom of religion, belief and sexual orientation are central to the eu’s approach. we have also begun work on the campaign on forced marriages, which destroy the lives of so many young people, girls and boys. when i was engaged in taking legislation through on forced marriages in the country i know best and come from, i was surprised to learn that 15% of those who ring the helplines on forced marriages are boys. either young boys forced into marriage with a girl they have never met, or young gay men forced into marriage for what reasons i do not know. in brussels, we have been working to put in place the arrangements foreseen by the treaty of lisbon to put human rights firmly at the centre of our policy. we are committed not only to guarantee but also to promote their universal respect by all. the charter of fundamental rights has contributed to promoting consistency between the eu’s internal and external policies, and the eu accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms will be a cornerstone for future developments. with the creation of the eeas, we have begun to work more closely with parliament, with member states and with civil society. the department created within the eeas on human rights and democracy is currently being reviewed to make it more effective. we have established a network of focal points in all eu delegations that contribute to delivering our eu human-rights policy goals. ms lochbihler gave us the privilege of meeting with all heads of eu delegations recently, at the beginning of this month, and i hope that the honourable member was able to see that human rights are at the core of the activities of the people on the ground. each of our member states have played their own part in bringing their national legislation in line with eu standards of full compliance with all the relevant treaties and conventions on human rights in the wider un framework. but the indivisibility and universality of human rights is increasingly being challenged globally. we will continue to counter this. the ongoing economic crisis should not be used as a pretext for those who want to dilute certain rights. all that i have just said has helped me to inform the review of the eu human rights policy that was first announced before this house and i am pleased that my contribution will be tabled very shortly. i want to outline some main points from that now. the text i will table this week is a contribution to an ongoing debate. it is necessarily concise, meaning that not every detail is reflected, but i hope that it offers a good basis for future work with this parliament and with the council. a number of meps have been involved in the process from the beginning, as when the chair of the subcommittee on human rights attended the eu ngo forum in july, which produced a first set of recommendations for inclusion. since then there have been various informal meetings and contacts with parliament, including of course with the human rights subcommittee, which contributed greatly to the process, and i want to thank particularly richard howitt for the work that he has done. though much of the discussion about the review of our policy has centred on the process, i also want to say something about the substance. crucially, i want the outcome of the review to deliver a strong reaffirmation of what the eu stands for: the universality of human rights as binding international commitments and norms. the message must go out that human rights are not negotiable and are inviolable. against that backdrop, i have identified four main priority areas for action. first, overhauling the eu’s delivery mechanisms. i want to make our policy more effective, adapting it better to the specific circumstances of each country, coupled with a global campaign-based approach. a key element here is the strengthening of relations with civil society, so that ngos are better engaged as full partners with the european union. second, achieving a joined-up approach in our policies. this is the idea i have spoken of often, to break down traditional silos, and have human rights running as a silver thread throughout a truly integrated range of external policies. third, building strong partnerships encompassing the whole world: multilaterally working through the un and the icc; regionally developing work, for example with the arab league; and bilaterally through our dialogues. fourth, speaking as one, which does not mean with a single voice but rather a coordinated and consistent message from everyone, ensuring that the invaluable work of parliament and the member states is brought together for the benefit of the whole. i propose to use thematic campaigns to deliver on specific cross-cutting themes. this has already been done to great effect in support of the icc and the abolition of the death penalty. i believe that approach can be extended, for example to promote the rights of women, by setting realistic, time limited, achievable, objectives. i am keen to make the best possible use of tailor-made country strategies on human rights, which should be driven by recommendations made locally. whilst they should stand firm on the universality of human rights and the global standards that apply to all, i believe this will allow us to deliver more across the board than a one-size-fits-all approach for 150 countries. it should allow us, too, to make the most effective use of the assorted tools we have, while engaging with due respect with the views of our partners on the ground. eu delegations are well placed to take this forward. i want to work closely, too, with all my commission colleagues, to bring human rights fully into the key community policies, such as development and trade, building on recent communications on the future of development, budget support, corporate social responsibility and the neighbourhood policy. i agree with ms lochbihler when she says that parliament has a key role to monitor, assess and provide political accountability for the eu’s actions in the human rights field. our financial support for human rights must go beyond the european instrument for democracy and human rights and should be reflected in other eu financial instruments. i will work to ensure that human rights are taken into account consistently in the programming of all eu external financial assistance. it is clear that in order to be credible when we raise human rights concerns with others, we have to make sure that our own house is in order too. so i am determined to instil a human rights culture in the eu’s emerging diplomatic structures. we already have an active eu training policy, but there is much more to be done in this direction and we are ready to take that forward. and i am very open-minded on the idea of appointing an eu special representative for human rights, to act as a catalyst and to raise our profile internationally. i look forward to discussing these proposals with members of this house over the coming weeks and months and to getting their views as we take this issue further forward. this parliament, this house of democratically elected representatives from all over the european union, is a champion of human rights, in the european union and in the world. your reports and your opinions inspire us and help to guide the work that we do. it is for this reason that being in front of you today on this topic is not merely my obligation, but it is also my privilege.
on behalf of the ppe group i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for your report! i have to say, we were expecting this months ago. this delay has critically hampered the adoption of the relevant reports by the european parliament, as well as the report by mr richard howitt on human rights, which you mentioned. your report highlights a very broad range of problems, but i do not see in this report what is in the title of the report greater efficiency. we also do not see how to solve the problems, we do not see this particular mechanism that we would like to develop further in our cooperation. the priority of judicial reform mentioned in the report is, in my view, extremely important, but here too we need to be effective in our work, because although we have been talking for years about such disturbing cases as the khodorkovsk, magnitsky cases in russia, ... mrs. ashton, i really wish you'd listen to maybe what we're talking about. mrs ashton! we'd like you to listen to us a little bit. ...we haven't moved in that direction nor in the court of law. human rights play a very important role in the world. we have had the arab spring, and democratic elections have been decisive in this regard. i would like to see these rights also be more clearly stated in the case of russia; that you express a stronger common position of the european union in response to the calls of over 80 000 people to help us; that we do not have a double standard; that we also respond to electoral irregularities in russia in the same way as we have responded to irregularities in kyrgyzstan, where i had the honour of leading the mission, in belarus, in ukraine. double standards do not do justice to our human rights policy. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank baroness ashton for her well-prepared statement, but i cannot but agree with mrs ludford that we talk too little about human rights in the european union itself, and unfortunately this also has certain problems, especially when we talk about indigenous national minorities who have lived for centuries in a certain territory and we must not only talk about the roma minority, but also about others. unfortunately, the current government in lithuania does not respect the rights of indigenous national minorities. national minorities are not allowed to use their own names, which are their own, and are punished for using their native language in public life in these towns where they represent more than 80% of the population. nor are the rights of ownership of land seized by the soviets respected. all these things we need to talk about. it is good that the osce high commissioner has been in lithuania recently, but i think that both the commission and the council should also take a serious interest in these issues.
madam president, in june 2010, here in the european parliament, the high representative announced her intention to launch a consultation to form a new human rights strategy. madam high representative, you said that this new strategy must be ambitious and should make the strongest eu statement so far on human rights in terms of purpose, eu policy and eu commitment. while the main objective of the communication you are presenting today is to open a discussion with the other european institutions on how to make the eu’s external policy on human rights and democracy more active, more coherent and more effective, our expectation is that there will now be a swift, transparent and inclusive process moving forward and a truly ambitious eu human rights strategy will be adopted without delay. i strongly recommend that a strategy should state clearly that human rights are not merely principles, nor european values, but international legal standards and obligations undertaken by states within the framework of international law. i expect the eu to make strong references to cooperation with the united nations, the council of europe, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and various international justice mechanisms. it is important that a strategy should ensure that the european parliament and civil society organisations are stakeholders in overseeing implementation of the eu’s human rights policy. finally, i fully support the appointment of eu special representatives on human rights.
first of all, i want to congratulate the former russian prime minister, mikhail kasyanov, who is sitting in the gallery listening to our discussions. a few things that are not in the resolution we're voting on this week. first, the medvedev-putin duo and their united russia party lost the duma elections. not only did they lose about 80 seats in the duma, but they de facto lost the elections. the gross violations that were an integral part of the election campaign and that were evident and recorded by international observers and independent russian observers on the day of the vote, the fraud in the counting of votes, testify to the fact that the celebration of free and fair elections in russia did not take place. many russians were deprived of their constitutional right to vote and to stand for election. second, the russian people took to the streets and squares in protest. it has already been mentioned today that mikhail gorbachev, the first and last president of the soviet union, is calling for new elections. i think that needs more attention. and lastly, your excellency, you will be speaking to your russian partners tomorrow...
i am pleased to welcome the rapporteurs for their profound review of the european neighbourhood policy and for their valuable proposals. the arab spring showed that seemingly stable regimes are crumbling like a house of cards in the internet age. many colleagues referred to the successful statement of the report as 'more for more' and 'more for more'. i think that principle is important for the belarusian regime. the european union is right to impose tough sanctions on the persons in charge of the companies they control, but sanctions and trade restrictions should not harm the already difficult lives of ordinary belarusians, who are suffering from hyperinflation. it is regrettable that the belarusian authorities have not responded to the initiative of brussels to facilitate the visa regime. the commission is also proposing to extend the visa waiver to all non-eu citizens of the european union.
the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the view that information plays a crucial role in ensuring that consumers consume only safe food. only by receiving complete and non-misleading information about the products consumed will the consumer be able to make an informed choice. this year we took a step further in this direction with the adoption of the regulation on food information to consumers, and now we are taking it further by introducing additional requirements for specific food groups. today, many stores sell drinks called fruit juices. however, it is often unclear what fruit is used to make them, how much sugar or sugar substitutes are used, whether the juice is the actual fruit, or what ingredients are used to make the drink. the document we are discussing today is another step towards clarity, defining what can be called fruit juices. it is of particular importance that the same requirements apply to all juices marketed in the european union. therefore, no derogation should be granted for juices imported into the european union. the european union is a market large enough for producers to adapt to our requirements. we can vote on this directive tomorrow at the first reading. this is important in view of the length of the procedure in an otherwise case. although i am somewhat disappointed that the text agreed at the trilogue does not reflect all the amendments adopted by the committee, i nevertheless believe that the agreement of all parties is more important in this case, which i believe will contribute to legal clarity and consumer protection.
the regulation we voted on today is of great importance for the european union's water bodies. this is also very important news for the baltic sea, whose waters are suffering from phosphorus compound pollution, which causes algal blooms that are becoming more intense and active every year. according to the helkom commission, if phosphates were to be phased out, the bloom of the baltic sea would be reduced by 24%. today, we took the first step, setting the half-gram limit on washing machines. the fact that a directly applicable act has been adopted will not allow countries which have not regulated the use of phosphates to rely solely on the goodwill of household chemical manufacturers and the awareness of consumers, as has been the case up to now. the maximum phosphate levels used in the eu vary widely, resulting in about 16 000 tonnes of phosphorus entering the baltic sea each year. i hope that the member states will support our position and that the entry into force of this regulation and the acceleration of waste water treatment will bring about a significant improvement in the situation of the baltic and other seas.
in writing. − in its conclusions of 17 june 2010, the european council stressed that iceland meets the political criteria set by the copenhagen european council of 1993 and endorsed the commission's opinion on iceland's application for eu membership. the european council therefore decided to open negotiations with iceland. iceland is therefore a candidate country. on 16 and 17 december 2010, the european council endorsed the council conclusions of 14 december 2010 on enlargement and agreed to grant montenegro candidate status. i voted in favour of this document as the commission proposes to the council and parliament to amend council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 of 17 july 2006 establishing a pre-accession facility in order to move iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries to the list of candidate countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which proposes to move iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries to the list of candidate countries. it is good to see that both countries have made great progress towards eu integration and have fulfilled the political requirements, the copenhagen criteria. it is worth noting that the decision to move these countries to the candidate list will have a positive impact on the eu enlargement processes, which are one of the eu's top priorities. it should be noted that iceland is an exceptional candidate country in terms of its alignment with eu law through the application of the agreement on the european economic area and in terms of its economic and social development. the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment. however, in order for further processes and negotiations to proceed smoothly and efficiently, both sides must continue to make every effort to implement internal reforms and to properly implement the requirements of membership and to assume the obligations associated with eu membership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. the sector of these products is a sufficiently important part of the industry of the european union. however, taking only one example orange juice, it should be noted that more than 82% of the eu consumption of juice is produced mainly in brazil and the united states, i.e. juice produced in the eu territory accounts for less than 20% of the eu consumption of orange juice. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is important to support the european sector by aligning the directive with international law and the code and by establishing the same rules for all products marketed in the community. as stated in the recitals in the preamble to the directive, the aim is to facilitate the free movement of those products. the european union produces high-quality fruit juices that help to maintain a healthy and balanced diet. they are produced to the sustainability standards that our laws promote. it is therefore fair for eu companies to require that the same quality standards apply to all products traded in the eu. we also need to take into account environmental aspects: local products do not have to be transported over long distances, which results in high co2 emissions. it should be stressed that this document is not about european protectionist measures, but about the continuing commitment to sustainability in all sectors of our economy. the overall quality of the product shall also be assessed in the light of the ethical, ecological and qualitative aspects of the product.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution and supported parliament's position at first reading. the commission proposal aims to amend for the second time the 2001 council directive on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. the rules laid down in the directive governing the composition, use of traditional descriptions, production specifications and labelling of such products are designed to ensure their free movement within the european union. the proposal reaffirms the distinction between fruit juices and fruit juices from concentrate, simplifies the provisions on the return of taste and aroma, provides for the removal of sugars from the list of authorised ingredients and adds tomatoes to the list of fruits used in the production of fruit juices. i agree that the commission and the member states should carry out targeted information campaigns to inform consumers of the different categories of juices and similar products provided for in this directive and to help them distinguish, for example, between juices and nectars.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that we must create the conditions for further development of the european union's fruit juice and similar products industry. the eu directive adopted in 2001 already introduced a major and important change in industrial regulation and, above all, in consumer protection. in other words, it was under this directive that producers were obliged to indicate on the labels whether the juice was made from a concentrate or whether it was genuine squeezed fruit juice. at this stage of the review of the said directive, it is proposed to maintain this division. another key feature of the revised directive is that it is more consistent with the provisions of the food code and it is decided whether the juice produced in the european union can be subject to certain techniques that are applicable to the juice produced in other regions of the world. for example, the addition of tangerine juice to orange juice, which the european parliament does not object to, not only enhances the colour and flavour of the juice but also, in some cases, meets the needs of certain categories of consumers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it requires the maintenance of the double labelling system which distinguishes pressed fruit juices from those made from concentrate. it is difficult for consumers to distinguish clearly between the different categories of products covered by the directive. there is a lot of confusion, especially when it comes to the difference between juices and nectars. it is very important to clarify this difference in the presence or absence of sugar in these products, as this is particularly important for groups of consumers with special needs (diabetics, children, overweight people, etc.). all fruit juices and related products traded in the eu would be subject to the same legislation and particular attention should be paid to harmful practices. it is important to support the european sector by aligning the directive with international law and the code and by establishing the same rules applicable to all products traded within the community. the current directive will provide an opportunity for third country producers to improve product quality through more sustainable production processes. the same rules for all will help to avoid fraud and unfair competition and will help to provide clearer information to consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is appropriate to maintain the double labelling to distinguish pressed fruit juices from those made from concentrate. the implementation of the provisions of this directive will create the right conditions for consumers to choose a product that is as unprocessed as possible and as natural as possible. the dual classification will ensure that consumers are provided with accurate information and that the illustrations on the packaging do not mislead them as to the true composition of the juices. it should be noted that uniform rules throughout the community will allow the free movement of these products and will help to avoid fraud and unfair competition. in addition, in line with the provisions of this directive and with a view to more sustainable production processes, producers in third countries will be encouraged to improve the quality of their products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household detergents. the aim of the current commission proposal for a regulation is to reduce the phosphorus content of detergents for household washing machines. phosphates enter our water system, rivers, streams, lakes, especially the danube basin and the baltic sea. phosphorus promotes excessive algal growth, which deprives other living organisms of oxygen and can produce toxins that kill fish, plants and other living species, as well as impairing water quality. so to clean up europe's waters, we need to reduce the amount of phosphorus that enters our continent's waters, and we need to do that globally. i therefore believe that the first priority should be to encourage the use of biological detergents with a minimum phosphate content and to limit the phosphate content of various household detergents by law. i therefore urge all eu member states to implement this regulation immediately and to make every effort to prevent the unnecessary large-scale use of phosphates. otherwise, we will leave future generations not the baltic sea, the danube basin or other bodies of water with diverse flora and fauna, but swamps.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution and supported parliament's position at first reading. the commission proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 648/2004 as regards the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household detergents aims to reduce the phosphorus used in household washing machine detergents. phosphorus is found in large quantities in household detergents and is directly released into our water systems, rivers, streams, lakes, especially the danube basin and the baltic sea. this leads to eutrophication excessive algal growth, which deprives other organisms of oxygen and can produce toxins that kill fish, plants and other species of organisms, as well as deteriorate water quality. the commission proposal aims to set limits on the content of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in detergents and to ensure that the proposed ban on the use of phosphates cannot be easily circumvented. i agree that it is appropriate to extend the restrictions on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household washing detergents to household automatic dishwasher detergents and to include them in the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − i have supported the proposal as it aims to amend regulation (ec) no 648/2004 on detergents by setting limits on the levels of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household detergents in order to reduce the impact of detergents on the overall eutrophication of eu surface waters, taking into account the evaluations and impact assessment carried out by the commission in accordance with article 16 of regulation (ec) no 648/2004.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the motion for a decision, since, in the light of the proposal of the conference of presidents, the decision of 15 july 2009 on the number of members of parliamentary committees and rule 183 of the rules of procedure, the need to ensure continuity of parliament's activities and the right of new members to participate in the meetings of parliament and its bodies and to exercise their full rights following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to change the number of members of parliamentary committees and the number of members of parliamentary subcommittees.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a decision because, in the light of the proposal of the conference of presidents and of my decision of 14 september 2009 on interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees, parliamentary cooperation committees and the number of multi-party parliamentary assemblies and rule 198 of the rules of procedure, the need to ensure continuity of parliament's activities and the fact that, following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, new members have the right to participate in the meetings of parliament and its bodies and to exercise their rights fully, it is necessary to change the number of members of interparliamentary delegations.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this document because, in order to comply with international law, economic activities relating to the exploitation of natural resources in a non-self-governing territory must be of benefit to the people living in that territory and must take account of their wishes. it is essential that the legal representatives of the people of western sahara be consulted on any agreement envisaging the use of the natural resources of that territory. it is necessary to ensure that the future protocol fully respects the rules of international law, benefits the people of western sahara and takes into account their wishes. the fisheries partnership agreement itself must pursue economic and social objectives, based on close scientific and technical cooperation, in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. each protocol shall be economically, ecologically and socially sustainable and mutually beneficial.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sector in the eu member states, which calls for increased cooperation in the field of defence. member states collectively spend about eur 200 billion a year on defence, which represents only about a third of the us defence budget alone. european countries are already incapable of carrying out military operations (example recent libya intervention) without us support, whose share of all defence spending within nato has risen to 75%. i agree with the rapporteur that the financial crisis is a global phenomenon and it has also touched the defence sector. there is a common tendency to cut spending on defence in the member states, which is the subject of our concern. it is true that maintaining these expenditures, when we are in a financial crisis, where there are social pressures, is not an easy task. at the same time it is important to stress, thinking about our future, we simply cannot afford to neglect basic needs such as security and defence in such turbulent times.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sectors of the eu member states. eu member states spend a total of around eur 200 billion a year on defence. the reliance of member states on uncoordinated national defence planning decisions for a large proportion of defence spending leads not only to persistent capacity shortfalls but also to often unnecessary overcapacity and duplication, unprecedented industries and markets. most eu member states have recently seen their defence budgets cut as a result of the financial, economic and debt crises. this may have a negative impact on the military capabilities of countries and the eu's ability to effectively implement commitments related to peacekeeping, conflict prevention and strengthening international security. i share the parliament's position that member states must seek to offset the negative impact of the financial crisis on the defence sectors of the eu member states through greater european cooperation and coordination. without coordinated cuts in defence budgets, europe could lose some of its military capabilities altogether. member states therefore need to exchange information effectively and increase transparency on current and future defence budget cuts. it is also necessary to make effective use of the potential economies of scale offered by cooperation projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that attention should be paid to the way in which member states finance their defence sector in times of crisis and economic hardship. this owninitiative report by the european parliament was drawn up in the light of the recent trend towards a major crisis-related reduction in the defence budgets of most eu member states, without any coordination at eu level. as the european parliament's report notes, the security situation is becoming increasingly complex and unpredictable both in europe and worldwide, and it is therefore proposed to maintain the pre-crisis level of european defence capabilities, as well as to rely less on the financing of defence spending by the united states in the north atlantic alliance. it is the latter aspect that is emphasised in the report, as it is believed that a strengthened european defence capability will increase the eu's strategic autonomy and make a major contribution to the collective security pursued by nato and other partnerships.
in writing. − i supported this document because defence is a public good, linked to the security of all european citizens, and all member states must contribute to it, in accordance with the principles of cooperation, burden-sharing and cost-effectiveness. the financial, economic and debt crises are reducing the defence budgets of most eu member states, with the potential for adverse effects on the military capabilities of countries and on the eu's ability to effectively implement its commitments to peace-keeping, conflict prevention and strengthening international security, in line with the principles of the united nations charter, unless member states are able to offset these adverse effects through increased european cooperation and coordination. member states need to urgently improve the transparency and openness of their defence markets. the competitiveness of the european defence industry needs to be enhanced, while ensuring that taxpayers' interests are properly protected.
in writing. − in times of economic upswing, not all nato countries spent 2% of gdp on defence. the defence budgets of eu member states will continue to decline following the economic crisis, with austerity measures and cuts in public spending. the situation has developed where one nato member country contributes as much as 75% of the total nato defence expenditure. while it is true that large-scale financing does not necessarily guarantee efficiency, it is necessary to seek new ways of cooperation between eu member states to avoid the negative impact of defence spending cuts on defence capabilities. european countries need to pool and share capacities in a coordinated way, and there is much to be done through joint european programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, in order to strengthen the european union's role in the world and preserve europe's technological capacity, while taking into account the specificities of each member state, a common defence industrial policy based on an economic approach is needed. it is worth noting that the enhanced european defence capability will contribute to the collective security pursued by the various partnerships, including nato. i believe that member states should implement permanent structured cooperation and define the conditions for the application of the solidarity and mutual defence provisions, improving the transparency and openness of their defence markets. i support the proposal that the eu should jointly purchase the most expensive and modern equipment and set up an eu headquarters for civil and military operations, which will help to maintain not only international peace and security but also provide opportunities for saving national budgets. it is worth noting that research and innovation play a crucial role in the security and defence sector. in this context, it is essential to maximise the synergies, development and independence of european defence and civil security research programmes. i believe that the european defence industry and the technological base will contribute to the creation of new jobs in this industrial sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu-russia summit of 15 december 2011. closer eu-russia cooperation, good neighbourly relations and a genuine strategic partnership are crucial to ensuring stability, security and prosperity in europe and beyond. i agree that the security of energy supply is one of the eu's key priorities and one of the main areas of cooperation with russia. the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political tool. it is important to strengthen the energy partnership with russia and to ensure that the eu speaks with one voice and shows strong internal solidarity in its relations with russia. i agree with parliament's position that the eu must ensure a reliable energy supply based on uniform standards for all eu member states. the diversity of energy suppliers and supply channels must also be ensured.
in writing. − you voted on this resolution as the european parliament reiterated its position on cooperation with russia and at the same time expressed its deep concern about the irregularities in the duma elections on 4 december 2011: on the day of the elections, numerous irregularities were reported in russia, including multiple votes, interference with party observers and falsification of ballots. the organisation of the elections has demonstrated that russia does not comply with the election standards set by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce). parliament also expressed serious concern about the reports of falsification and the preliminary findings in the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights report on procedural irregularities, lack of media impartiality, obstruction of independent observers and insufficient separation of party and state. the european parliament therefore calls on the russian authorities to take account of the findings of the osce election observation report on democratic institutions and human rights, and in cooperation with the venice commission, to reform electoral laws to bring them into line with osce and council of europe standards and to implement these standards in practice, in order to ensure free and democratic presidential elections in 2012, with equal opportunities for opposition candidates.
in writing. − the russian people want the right to vote freely in fair elections and to feel in control of their country's future, and the european union to develop a strategic partnership with a democratic, secure and stable country that respects fundamental rights and freedoms and the sovereignty of its neighbours. we have to admit to ourselves that russia is moving selectively forward in its relations with the eu - what helps economic development is accepted, and concerns about democracy and human rights violations are simply dismissed. we may seek friendship with russia, but how far are we willing to go to gain it? i find it difficult to imagine a visa-free regime with a state whose government structures shelter people accused of crimes against humanity, such as in the case of mr golovatov, while russia refuses to cooperate in cases of this category, such as the january 13 and medinsky murders, while there is no substantial progress in the magnitsky case, while mr khodorkovsky is imprisoned. the movement of the russian people after the duma elections is a signal not only to democracy in russia, but also to us that civil society in the country is alive, people know their rights and are ready to demand them. we cannot let down the democratically minded section of russian society.
in writing. − the eu and russia are economically and politically interdependent. it is one of the eu's most important partners. in this context, i believe that the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement should proceed at a faster pace. it should cover in detail political, economic and social issues and security issues. particular attention should also be paid to strengthening the energy partnership in order to ensure the security of energy supply. russia's accession to the wto is welcome, which will create a more favourable environment for businesses in both countries and help to liberalise trade in the global economy.
in writing. − i am pleased that this resolution has been adopted, which recalls that russia is a permanent member of the council of europe, the osce and the un security council and is therefore committed to implementing and respecting the principles of democracy. following repeated warnings from the osce and european union institutions about the critical human rights situation in the country, electoral laws and politically motivated court decisions, the european court of human rights this year criticised the cumbersome registration procedure for political parties in russia. however, the december 4 russian state duma elections and the repressive response of the authorities to the ensuing widespread popular protests have once again highlighted the serious situation of democracy and human rights in the country, as evidenced by reports of widespread violations by the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights. the european parliament resolution sends a clear and damning signal to the russian leadership, which is why i have supported it. however, i do not agree that the visa-free regime with russia should be supported and continued. first, the state of democracy and human rights in russia does not meet the standards of a democratic state and the criteria for a visa-free regime. secondly, the number of russian citizens entering the eu is three times higher than the number of eu citizens going to russia, where they face various administrative and movement restrictions. third, the results and contribution of the visa facilitation regime to the dynamics of eu-russia relations have not yet been assessed. any discussion on visa-free travel between the eu and russia is therefore premature.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on european neighbourhood policy. its main objective is the absolute necessity of advocating our fundamental values in relations with our neighbouring countries. a new strategy with regard to the european neighbourhood policy (enp), aimed at empowering citizens, people and their organisations, as well as the regional and local authorities, will be put into practice by the eu, adapted to the socio-economic and political realities of each of the eu’s neighbouring countries. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to defend a bottom-up approach, stronger conditionality and stronger differentiation of this policy, ensuring a better targeted assistance to each eu neighbouring country and guaranteeing that funding matches political ambition. the eu should increase its support for institution-building, civil society and the will to start democratisation processes, supporting organised movements striving for positive democratic changes in their countries: in advancing women’s and children’s rights – in particular the civic and political participation of women, building and deepening the democratic principles of freedom, fair elections and the rule of law. the immediate economic assistance in order to foster socio-economic changes, which are preconditions for long-term stabilisation and prosperity, is also necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. in may 2011, the european external action service and the european commission announced a new ambitious european neighbourhood policy (enp). the proposal sets out the main priorities and directions of the renewed esf strategy aimed at strengthening the eu's individual and regional relations with its neighbours by allocating more resources to wider reforms and increasing mutual accountability. i welcome the proposal to create a new european neighbourhood instrument and to increase the funding of the esf. i agree with parliament's view that it is important to strengthen the energy cooperation aspect of the european neighbourhood policy. it is necessary to ensure security of energy supply through diversification of sources and demand management, to take effective measures to respect the principle of solidarity in the energy sector and to promote the construction, modernisation and development of modern energy networks and infrastructure interconnections with the eu's neighbours. the strengthening of the eastern partnership will be a key factor in the development of the eu's border regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the position it expresses that the guidelines for the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, drawn up by the european commission, are moving in the right direction. in particular, the european parliament's report supports the 'more for more' and 'less for less' principle proposed by the commission, which means closer cooperation with the european union for those neighbouring countries which are successfully and actively implementing democratic reforms in their countries and, conversely, a cooling-off in relations with the eu for those countries which refuse or delay the implementation of these reforms. as a general rule, i also support the idea that such a tool of diplomatic pressure is appropriate to promote the development of democratic processes in neighbouring countries, but we must be very careful not to harm the ordinary citizens of those countries by such means. i believe that any aid and measures aimed at strengthening civil society in these countries, while putting pressure on the leadership of non-democratic regimes, will enable us to achieve the best results in strengthening democracy in neighbouring countries.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy needed to be revised in the light of the dramatic changes in the south, in order to achieve mutually beneficial cooperation between the eu and its partners, in accordance with the principle of 'more for more'. i welcome the commission's proposal to increase the financing of the esf by 23% in the new multiannual financial framework. however, a proper balance must be found between the two esa flanges. the arab spring has been a political focus for a year. the eu must support the development of countries, the development of civil society, help rebuild infrastructure, and promote the processes of democracy and the rule of law, so as not to close the windows of opportunity for democracy. however, the eu should play the role of promoter, not implementer, of the relevant reforms. the revolutions have given more voice to the citizens, and they need to feel that they are the owners of the reforms. we must not leave our eastern neighbours to their own devices. many of them are pursuing a european perspective and making progress in european reforms - efforts that must be recognised and valued. we must not forget that in the eastern neighbourhood many aspects are linked to the eu-russia dialogue, such as the visa-free regime, decisions must be taken only on the basis of objective criteria and real progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in this century the european union is increasingly confronted with terrorist attacks, their damage and the threat they pose to society. the threat of terrorism has increased, the links between crime are expanding, cyberterrorism, narcoterrorism, and the activities of small terrorist groups involving the extortion of assets, money laundering and illicit financing are emerging as one of the most dangerous terrorist attacks. the parliament's report notes that terrorism in the eu has taken on a new dimension over the last decade and is no longer a matter of national security for the member states affected only. the report therefore notes that a common eu approach to terrorism and the development of a common policy are needed in the future, as terrorist acts are often carried out on a pan-european scale and terrorists exploit the differences in european legislation, counter-terrorism capabilities and the abolition of border controls in their attacks.
in writing. − terrorism is a multifaceted phenomenon and its causes are diverse, with an extremely wide range of perpetrators - from individual suicide bombers to well-organised international mafia-type structures. it is not yet possible to define the term terrorism precisely. the scale of the impact of terrorism and the response to this multi-dimensionality require a diversity of counter-terrorism measures by the states concerned and by international organisations, as well as sufficient coordination of actions.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr cashman, because he has done a very good job and i wish him every success in his fight for full access to documents for the citizens of the european union. indeed, i wonder why the commission proposal did not include provisions on additional requests for information, the implementation of the principle of good administration and transparency during the transitional period, provisions prohibiting any discrimination, but also provisions prohibiting the refusal to provide information to citizens on the grounds of possible technical failures or possibly other discrepancies. so i wonder what they're trying to protect us from and what we're trying to protect ourselves from. what are we afraid of? are we afraid of our citizens, who elected us and in whose name we have to work? the charter of fundamental rights, which entered into force with the treaty of lisbon, explicitly provides that citizens of the european union have a right of access to documents of the institutions of the european union in any form. it is therefore our task as citizens' representatives to ensure that this right is implemented both properly and transparently.
for the efd group recent developments have shown that offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities pose risks to maritime transport and the marine environment, and the european maritime safety agency has an important role to play in this area, ensuring an effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships. the agency should act in the interest of the european union. this includes the freedom of action of the agency outside the territory of the european union in the areas of competence in the implementation of the european union's maritime security policy with third countries on technical and scientific matters. the tasks of the enlarged agency must be clearly and precisely defined in order to avoid duplication and any confusion. i believe that a high, uniform and effective level of safety and security at sea is necessary, that available capacities must be used to provide assistance, that marine pollution must be prevented and responded to in a timely manner, and that a european maritime area without barriers must be created.
first of all, i would also like to thank my colleague mr fleckenstein for the enormous amount of work he has done, because the tasks and the role of the european maritime safety agency are very large. the aim should be to further improve and strengthen the work of the agency by means of the amended regulation, to ensure that its tasks are properly addressed, but also to address challenges and to provide advice and technical and scientific assistance to the member states and the commission more effectively. the proposed regulation properly identifies the agency's tasks and role and provides greater clarity in its work. the appropriate mandate and material resources are necessary to ensure that these scope and tasks are properly implemented. we must also ensure that the agency can develop technical cooperation more easily and effectively with neighbouring countries that share a maritime border. to avoid duplication of work, the european maritime safety agency needs a very clear strategy, clear political support from us and also greater eu-wide added value.
in writing. the european maritime safety agency was set up in response to water pollution caused by tanker accidents. today, everything must be done to widen the range of issues dealt with by the agency. the fight against marine pollution, maritime safety and environmental protection must be a priority for the agency. in particular, the agency should strengthen its cooperation with third countries in whose waters oil and gas exploration and production takes place. this will help to prevent future ecological disasters. the idea of a european maritime transport area 'without barriers' is also worth considering, as it would make the formalities necessary for the transport of goods and passengers between the member states of the union easier and simpler. the blue belt project also deserves support. it reduces the administrative burden on short sea shipping. it also ensures that the vessel declaring the intra-eu movement of goods has only visited eu ports, and this will facilitate the customs clearance procedure. finally, i would like to call on parliament to ensure that the agency's extended tasks are clear and well defined. this will avoid not only internal but also international conflicts of interest in this area.
for the efd group first of all, a big thank you to mr grosch for his excellent report. the transport sector is not only important for the development of the union, regions and cities, but is also of great importance to european citizens, as it provides jobs for many europeans and creates the european internal market. transport has to contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, sustainable growth, research, energy, innovation and the environment. i agree with the rapporteur that some member states underestimate the added value of transport policy for europe and are holding back the implementation of this policy, not always implementing directives and projects accurately and with delays. in times of economic and financial crisis, there is too little incentive to invest in ten-t projects. it is necessary to effectively connect the transport networks of the new and old member states of the european union and to eliminate the differences in the level of infrastructure development between the member states of the european union. europe needs to develop a competitive transport system based on the efficient use of resources.
i agree with many of the ideas in the commission's white paper on competitiveness objectives and initiatives to remove barriers in the transport sector. i believe that one of the most important objectives is to effectively connect the transport networks of all the regions of the european union and to eliminate the differences in the level of infrastructure development, so it is necessary to ensure the successful development of the trans-european transport network, the efficiency of the european union's action in the ten-t area and, of course, a better use of the european union's financial contribution. it is also essential to ensure the safety of all modes of transport. another major challenge is ensuring smooth transport links between the member states of the european union and europe's external borders. we must aim to remove obstacles at border crossing points to the movement of goods between the european union countries, especially those on the eastern border of the european union, and neighbouring countries. we need to take stronger action to achieve our objectives more effectively, because the main ...
uzbekistan, like the other central asian countries, is rich in resources and an important partner for the european union. it is the fifth largest cotton producer and the third largest cotton exporter in the world. the european union is the world's largest importer of uzbek cotton. these facts give us the opportunity and the duty to positively influence the development of uzbekistan and bilateral cooperation, to promote progress in both the economic and human rights fields. however, we must avoid overly educational rhetoric that can achieve the opposite. the people of uzbekistan have a positive attitude towards the european union and i believe that the european union delegation in tashkent will be important in strengthening cooperation. the work on parliament's position on the protocol was not easy, in particular because of the human rights concerns that existed. both the report and the opinion of the foreign affairs committee severely condemn any form of forced labor. looking at the facts, i have come to two main conclusions. first, uzbekistan must ensure the free functioning of the international labour organisation in the country. at the same time, it should be noted that uzbekistan has already taken significant steps to address the problems by ratifying 13 wto conventions and most un human rights conventions, and these principles are enshrined in the constitution. forced labour of children is a criminal offence. secondly, it is essential to modernise the agricultural sector. it is therefore important to conclude a textile trade protocol with uzbekistan, which should be concluded without undue delay as soon as the international labour organisation confirms that specific reforms have been implemented and that forced labour is effectively eliminated.
i agree with the rapporteur that the agreement on trade in textile products with uzbekistan should not be based on purely economic arguments. taşkent denies that child labour is used in the country, but the refusal to allow the international labour organization and other observers to enter is another story. the european union should use all its influence to change the situation. the government is failing to manage agriculture, to prevent the destruction of nature, to prevent the waste of water. eu firms, buying up to a quarter of the country's cotton, are supporting this failed system, whether they like it or not. i would suggest, half-jokingly, half-seriously, that we require all eu companies buying uzbek cotton to label their products as 'probably produced with child labour'. could this help to accelerate change in the country?
i cannot in any way support the fact that bulgarian and romanian citizens of the european union are discriminated against in the labour market and subject to certain restrictions. some say that this poses a threat to the labour market in certain countries of the european union, but no one has proved that this is the case. on the contrary, the communication issued by the european commission last month shows that in those countries where romanian and bulgarian workers are employed, they contribute to economic prosperity, to better living conditions, they are useful, and not the other way around. in fact, the commission's spokesman said today that the commission has no power to put forward certain uniform criteria, which is a major threat to one or another country in the european union if romanian or bulgarian citizens come to work there without any restrictions. i do not see why there cannot be such a uniform criteria and who will be hindered by it. the biggest threat i see is that we in the european union have started to divide everything into several areas: there are european union countries, there are eurozone countries and non-eurozone countries, freelance people and those who cannot work freely. this is the real threat, not the free movement of workers without any restrictions.
the author. − indeed, the 'advanced energy for europe' programme has provided a very favourable environment for companies and public authorities in the member states of the community to prepare feasibility and market studies, business plans for reducing energy consumption and changing the way it is used. this is a major step forward in reducing the climate change footprint, limiting and minimising pollution, and using energy resources more efficiently and rationally. but if we were really talking about really advanced energy, we should be talking about different principles today, like a european energy without fossil fuels. it could be wind, it could be solar, it could be hydro. the search for new forms of energy should be the focus of all programmes to promote smart energy in europe. it is necessary to encourage and finance member states' investments in new and advanced technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. today, the path to smart energy requires new and bold steps in principle. let us design our future in new forms of energy, such as hydrogen energy, the next generation of nuclear technology. we are the generation whose actions will determine whether we preserve the earth for future generations or condemn it to a slow but inevitable death in 100 or 200 years. let us choose such actions, let us choose only such principles, that they do not give the slightest incentive to destroy what we have not created.
the 'smart energy for europe' programme has attracted a lot of interest from european union citizens and businesses since it was launched in 2003. to date, more than 500 eu-wide projects have been implemented, making a significant contribution to the european union's capacity for innovation, the development of a knowledge society, and greater energy efficiency, including the development of renewable sources. i agree with all the concerns expressed about the future of this programme and its prospects and i believe that it must be maintained in the next financial period. it must be adequately funded to enable the participation of as many research institutes and smes as possible from all member states in the projects, thus contributing to the creation of real added value throughout the european union.
the regulation adopted today is the first document of this plenary session to deal with the protection of the european union's water bodies. the european maritime safety agency is already doing a very important job in maritime safety. but the painful lessons of the gulf of mexico show that the european union must take stronger action. emsa still monitors maritime transport, but this regulation extends the monitoring function to other areas. i was the shadow rapporteur on this document for the environment committee and i am particularly pleased that emsa will now monitor not only pollution from ships but also oil and gas production and transport facilities. it is also essential that the agency has some influence and cooperation with the european commission in carrying out inspections in third countries, i.e. those countries that share a sea with the european union, and i hope that effective monitoring will allow for effective prevention and effective response to potential disasters. it is also essential that the agency has some influence and cooperation with the european commission in carrying out inspections in third countries, i.e. those countries which share a sea with the european union, and i hope that effective monitoring will allow for effective prevention and effective response to potential disasters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan which points out that currently no direct budget support is granted to this country. i agree with the rapporteur that budget support remains the most appropriate channel to foster capacity building and, therefore, the commission should be invited to consider sectoral budget support, where appropriate, with rigorous and well-defined conditions. we, members of the european parliament, call on the commission to insist on the establishment of full financial and operational independence of the control and audit office of afghanistan. moreover, the ep also urges the commission to further strengthen coordination with member states and the donor community in general. i want to stress that the own-initiative report of 15 january 2009 on the control of eu funds in afghanistan had already asked the commission to provide a comprehensive annual report including shortcomings identified and measures taken to remedy these shortcomings. regrettably, until now the commission has not prepared such a report, therefore, we, members of the european parliament, strongly urged the commission – once more – to implement the recommendation.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as the european commission has allocated 2 billion and disbursed over eur 1.8 billion in development and humanitarian aid to afghanistan since 2002, and parliament has a monitoring role to play, and it is therefore requested that the commission transparently apply and make public the following measures: agreements with the government of the islamic republic of afghanistan; baseline values, indicators, targets, calculation methods and sources of verification to assess progress and to take decisions on disbursement of the variable-rate components of possible future budget support based on performance; clear and standardised reports assessing progress in an objective and transparent manner, based on established criteria and, if necessary, giving reasons why the planned progress could not be achieved initially.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the commission's 2010 report on competition policy. i agree that the commission must take effective action to promote the harmonisation of competition rules across the board. in energy policy, the commission should monitor more closely the competition in energy markets and improve the integration of energy from renewable sources into electricity grids. it is important that the commission strengthen its efforts to open up the credit rating agency sector to competition and to ensure the quality of credit ratings. the commission should determine whether the distortion of competition is due to differences in the application of public procurement rules in the eu member states. i also agree that an interoperable and efficient cross-border transport infrastructure network is essential to ensure a competitive and efficient internal market in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because competition policy is an essential tool for the european union to create a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to be competitive on the global stage. the european parliament welcomes the commission's prompt and reasonable response to the crisis by adopting specific state aid rules and using competition policy as a crisis management tool. large amounts of state aid during the crisis, such as in the form of guarantee schemes, recapitalisation schemes and additional liquidity support provided by banks, contributed to the large imbalances in public finances. the commission should further investigate the competitive situation in the retail sector, in particular in relation to the alleged abuse of market power by dominant retail chains, which is detrimental to small retailers and producers in the agri-food market. the european parliament also believes that competition policy should contribute to the promotion of open standards and to the application and interoperability of activities, in order to avoid that the small number of market participants prevents consumers and customers from participating in the development of technologies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for france, with a view to allocating eur 24.5 million in commitment and payment appropriations. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall provide support for and facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns linked to globalisation and as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. in october 2009, france submitted an application and requested assistance for 4 445 redundancies (of which 3 582 were foreseen) from renault sa and its seven automotive suppliers. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the company in question. this led to a decline in demand for renault cars and a deterioration in the company's economic situation. the commission has assessed the application to be eligible under the egf regulation. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf in accordance with the request made by france for financial assistance to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − on 9 october 2009, france submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in the company 'renault s.a.s.' and seven of its suppliers. the application concerns 4 445 redundancies, of which 3 582 are redundancies, in the enterprises of renault s.a.s. and its seven suppliers during the reference four-month period from 1 april 2009 to 31 july 2009. this application complies with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported the commission's proposal to mobilise an amount of eur 24 493 525.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents as it goes far beyond the goal to create more transparency by better access to documents for the citizens. moreover, the report takes on issues that cannot be the subject of the regulation at all. i supported the position of the epp group, that the report does not only transgress the law and interinstitutional agreement in force but violates as well the safeguarding of competition proceedings, sensitive and personal data. the report defines as a ‘document’ all data and content which is somehow linked to the politics, the measures and the decisions of all institutions of the eu; this includes in a broad way also preparative, confidential and classified documents. therefore this definition includes not only documents but also pieces of information. as a consequence the citizens would have access to procedures, which goes far beyond the normal access to documents and which would open the floodgates to public influence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is our task as meps, as representatives of the citizens, to ensure that the right of citizens to have access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies in any form, as conferred on them by the treaty of lisbon, is properly implemented. i therefore support parliament's position and the amendments, which would, in particular, combine the proposals submitted by the commission in 2008 and this year into a single document, thus simplifying it. the european parliament also added to the commission's proposal provisions on supplementary requests for information, the implementation of the principle of good administration and transparency during the transitional period, and provisions prohibiting any discrimination, as well as provisions prohibiting the refusal to provide information to citizens on the grounds of possible technical failures or discrepancies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the commission is being asked to make it clearer to citizens that it is prepared to provide information in a more transparent way on the functioning of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. legislators should seize this opportunity and try to make this regulation a genuine and exclusive legal basis for public access to all documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, taking into account that citizens are the end-users. we have a duty to make it as easy and simple as possible to have access to european parliament, council and commission documents.
in writing. − we often complain about the lack of public interest in the activities of the european union institutions. however, one reason for this is that citizens do not know what is happening in these institutions, how decisions are taken, they cannot access the working documents of the institutions and only see the final document, sometimes without understanding when a provision was introduced during the deliberations. of course, there are some areas where it is not possible to disclose all the data. for example, in cases of infringement of competition law, i believe that the citizens' interest lies more in ensuring fair competition than in access to documents. so, while i support the document in principle, i do not agree with all the amendments that have been adopted, and i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the commission proposal aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 on the european maritime safety agency in order to clearly define the current tasks and role of the eeas, in order to extend the tasks of the eeas to new areas to be developed at international and eu level. i agree that the ejsa should be more involved in eu marine research in the field of research. it is also necessary to clarify the definition of the eeas' assistance to the commission and the member states in the various international and regional organisations, to harmonise and interlink the different supervisory systems of the eeas operational services and to simplify the legal framework for the activities of the eeas in order to expand the possibility of technical cooperation between the eeas and neighbouring countries. the mandate of ejsa should cover not only the activities of ships but also those of offshore oil installations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it proposes long-term changes by establishing a european maritime safety agency (emsa). the european maritime safety agency, set up in 2002 and operational since march 2003, aims to ensure effective and uniform maritime safety and to protect and support pollution control mechanisms. the european maritime safety agency also provides scientific and technical assistance to the member states and the european commission for the application of community legislation. the agency's activities are important, since it has already carried out more than 100 investigations of all kinds in the field of safety, security and prevention of pollution from ships since its inception. the agency has also organised numerous events in its field of work and produced detailed technical reports. the european maritime safety agency is thus recognised as a well-functioning organisation, which is efficient and helps member states to save a great deal of money.
in writing. − offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities pose a threat to maritime transport and the marine environment. the european maritime safety agency plays an important role in this area by ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships. i believe that the agency should act in the interests of the european union. this includes the freedom of action of the agency outside the territory of the european union in the areas of its competence, in promoting the implementation of the european union's maritime security policy, in cooperation with third countries on technical and scientific matters. the tasks of the enlarged agency should be clearly and precisely defined in order to avoid duplication and any confusion. i believe that it is necessary to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of safety and security at sea, to use available capacities for assistance, to prevent and respond to marine pollution, including from offshore oil and gas installations, and to create a european maritime area without barriers. that is why i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - 5,000 victims of the regime and every day more lives are lost in syria, including hundreds of children. in this context, the search for solutions by the eu, the arab league and other international actors is welcome, while the fact that no agreement has been reached so far on the blockade of some countries in the un security council is regrettable. does the inability of the authorities in these countries to disassociate themselves from the de-legitimized assad regime mean that they are justifying the brutal crackdown on peaceful protesters and would take similar measures against their own citizens? this is a worrying signal to the citizens of these countries. if the situation continues to develop in the same direction, a general armed conflict and a humanitarian catastrophe could ensue in syria. the international community must act to prevent this.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the main objective of the newly created surveillance mechanism is to prevent and eliminate excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the european union, and in particular in the euro area. the new mechanism also aims to achieve convergence of economic performance in the long term and to ensure closer coordination of economic policies. in view of the current economic situation, it is essential that a macroeconomic surveillance system is established and applied as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the commission's white paper 'a roadmap for a common european transport area'. developing a competitive transport system based on the efficient use of resources. the european commission's white paper adopted in march 2011 sets out a comprehensive strategy for the development of a competitive transport system and the main objectives to be achieved by 2050. i agree with parliament that the eu's high dependence on imported fossil fuels poses a serious risk to the eu's economic security and may limit the flexibility of the eu's foreign policy choices. i believe that it is necessary to ensure the successful development of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), to effectively connect the transport networks of all eu regions and to eliminate the differences in the level of infrastructure development between the eu member states. i agree that member states should commit themselves to eliminating the main known problematic sections of roads for all modes of transport by 2020 and to bringing the transport infrastructure of the new member states up to the level of other member states by 2025. the commission should increase the stability of the financing of ten-t projects. eu co-financing should be based on the 'use it or lose it' principle. we must take decisive action in clearly defining, developing and implementing the objectives of a future efficient and competitive eu transport policy. since the main objectives of the 2001 white paper have been only partially or not at all achieved, we need to analyse and learn from past mistakes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because one of the main sectors in the european union is transport, which provides some 10 million jobs and accounts for 5% of gross domestic product (gdp). the transport sector is of great importance and has a lot of potential to develop and innovate in areas such as transport, logistics and mobility. transport can also be beneficial in other areas in the european union, such as innovation, research, the environment, sustainable economy, growth and energy. the sector also has a significant potential to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the european union's europe 2020 strategy for growth. taking into account economic, employment, environmental, social and territorial aspects, the european internal transport market should be completed by further opening up transport networks and markets. the european commission should ensure that proposals for the opening up of services in all transport markets do not lead to social dumping, do not reduce the quality of services, and do not create the conditions for the emergence of private monopolies or oligopolies. an integrated transport policy covering the entire transport and logistics value chain is needed to adequately address transport and mobility problems, especially in urban areas. the coordination of activities among policy-makers in the european institutions should be strengthened, as well as the ongoing dialogue and consultation with representatives of the logistics industry, transport service providers and customers in the european logistics and mobility forum.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the transport sector is of vital importance for the development of the european union, its regions and cities, and also for european citizens, because it provides jobs for many europeans and creates the european internal market. transport has a significant contribution to make to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, sustainable economic growth, research, energy, innovation and the environment. i agreed with the rapporteur that member states underestimate the added value of transport policy for europe and delay its implementation, implementing directives and projects incorrectly or late. in times of economic and financial crisis, there is little incentive to invest in ten-t projects. it is necessary to effectively connect the transport networks of the new and old eu member states and to eliminate the differences in the level of infrastructure development in the eu member states in order to create a common european transport area. europe needs to develop a competitive transport system based on the efficient use of resources.
in writing. − i fully support the provisions of the communication on the common transport area, as the proper functioning of the transport sector is also essential for the proper functioning of the single market. i would also like to draw attention to two provisions relating to the acceleration of infrastructure development. first, there is still a need to improve the connectivity between eu member states, especially by rail. it is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to the projects included in the list of ten-t priority projects. secondly, the promotion of environmentally friendly transport also requires improving the infrastructure associated with it, in particular the distribution points of energy (gas stations, charging stations for electric vehicles, etc.). this also requires action in other areas, in particular urban planning.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because prison conditions are a particularly important issue for the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the area of freedom, security and justice. it is essential to ensure a common basis of mutual trust between judicial authorities, as well as better knowledge of national criminal justice systems. parliament expressed concern at the conditions of detention in the european union and called on the member states to take urgent measures to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of prisoners, in particular the rights of vulnerable persons. in order to prevent violations of prison conditions, minimum common standards of detention should be applied in all eu member states. the european commission and the agency for fundamental rights should therefore monitor the situation of prison conditions in the european union and support the efforts of member states to ensure that their laws and policies meet the highest standards in this area. it is also essential to ensure respect for fundamental human rights, in particular the right of defence and the right to a lawyer, and to ensure the rights of suspects or accused persons, including the right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it can bring about tangible positive changes for the european parliament in uzbekistan's path towards strengthening democracy and better protection of human rights. the european parliament has received a request from the council of ministers of the european union to give its consent to the conclusion of a protocol amending the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement. in this case, parliament stated that it would consider the issue of consent only after the uzbek authorities had granted the international labour organisation's observers permission to carry out a comprehensive and unhindered monitoring and after they had confirmed that concrete reforms had been implemented and had produced tangible results in order to effectively prohibit forced and child labour at national, provincial and local levels. the european parliament considered that the conclusion of such a protocol could benefit european union textile exporters, but suspended its signature, considering that the economic aspect of the agreement should not be overestimated in the face of serious violations of democratic principles and human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because textiles are not covered by the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) and the sector is regulated by a bilateral agreement which expired in 2005, and this has created legal uncertainty for union exporters, as uzbekistan (not being a wto member) can increase import tariffs at any time, while the union grants the most favourable treatment (in terms of customs tariffs) to all countries in the world. the objective of this protocol is to include textile products in the sps, thereby granting each other the status of a most favourable treatment and ending the legal uncertainty for union exporters of textile products. in line with the principles and objectives of the union's external action, i believe that the union, as one of its main trading partners and the largest importer of cotton from uzbekistan, has a moral obligation to use its leverage to put an end to forced child labour in that country. for this reason, the protocol cannot be considered as a mere technical agreement as long as human rights issues are raised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because free movement of workers is one of the fundamental values of the european union and one of the greatest achievements guaranteed by eu law, which allows citizens of one eu member state to work in another eu member state under the same conditions as nationals of that member state. this is perhaps the most important right granted to individuals, which is an essential component of both the internal market and european citizenship. although the european commission communication of 11 november 2011 found that workers from romania and bulgaria had and have a positive impact on the economies of all member states where workers from these countries are employed, some eu member states currently apply work restrictions to romanian and bulgarian nationals. thus, member states wishing to extend restrictions on the access of nationals of those countries to the labour market must give specific, detailed and duly substantiated reasons for such extension. those member states should clearly identify the threats and labour market disturbances in their countries, as the reports by the member states and the commission show only positive effects on the economy of the bulgarian and romanian workers and no labour market disturbances. the commission must also take measures to ensure that there are no restrictions on fundamental freedoms and that there are no obstacles to the free movement of workers throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the european union underlines the strong political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia in all areas of cooperation, such as stability, security and sustainable development of the region, trade and economic relations, energy and transport links, dialogue on common values such as democracy, respect for human rights and the strengthening of the rule of law, common challenges and threats, including border management and the fight against drug and human trafficking. the european parliament considers that the revision of the central asia strategy should take into account the need to provide sufficient financial resources to support its objectives and to implement appropriate distribution models reflecting the realities of each country in the region. in view of the financial constraints, the focus should be on the medium and long-term programmes that can have the greatest impact on the development of the region, in particular youth and education, technical assistance to support economic development and the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as water supply and the fight against illicit drug trafficking. the european parliament also calls on the commission to explicitly integrate or at least harmonise its normative, technical and interest-based agendas for central asia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the right to health is a fundamental right and all workers must have the same legal guarantees and working conditions that protect their health, safety and dignity at their workplace. it should be recognised that the characteristics and activities of the workplace are constantly changing as a result of technological developments and changing economic and social conditions, and that a rapid solution of political, administrative and technical issues is essential to ensure a high level of health and safety at work. in addition, great attention should be paid to risk prevention, which is essential to reduce the number of work-related accidents and diseases. good management of the occupational health and safety system has positive effects at national and european level, as well as on individual companies. at european and national level, it is therefore necessary to harmonise occupational health and safety policies and to integrate them fully into other types of public policy: health, employment, industry, environment, transport, education, energy, regional development, public procurement and the internal market. in addition, the gender dimension should be implemented in all policy areas in order to better take into account the specific risks faced by women workers. the adoption, design and implementation of national strategies should take into account the specific situation in each member state, focusing on those sectors and undertakings where the highest number of accidents at work occur.
in writing. − the 1989 framework directive and other directives (including reach) for specific threats or sectors set out in detail all the acquis communautaire relating to occupational health and safety. these legislative acts enable the implementation of the european treaties and the charter of fundamental rights in the field of occupational health and guarantee the fundamental right to health protection. however, the strategy indicates that this is not enough. it is necessary to adapt this legislation to new threats. the promotion and implementation of occupational health policy has positive results in four areas: economic, social, personnel and corporate image, which is why i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. − in support of this document, i would like to draw attention to one aspect: to ensure adequate health and safety at work, much more attention than is currently needed is needed to ensure adequate training of workers. often, especially where the workforce is predominantly unskilled, such as in construction, training is not provided or is provided very superficially, leading to a number of tragic accidents. therefore, company representatives responsible for the safety of workers should take active action in training workers, and occupational safety supervisory authorities should pay more attention to explaining the importance of adequate and timely training of workers.
