mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear john! this directive creates clear and transparent rights. this makes the situation clear when i go abroad and no longer arbitrary, as was the case in some countries. this directive will also improve the information i receive when i go abroad. however, this directive must also be implemented by governments. but what this directive has prevented is what some in the commission - and perhaps here too - have dreamed of, namely that we need to open up borders in order to improve national health systems. i am proud that we have managed to maintain this balance with the two rapporteurs - and with mrs grossetête - a clear no to health tourism and a clear yes to the non-undermining of national systems. the quality of health care is not something that can be solved by this directive, but only by sufficient investment in the member states. i would be glad, mr dalli and commission, if you would concentrate more on the social security regulation, now that we have this directive, which is the basic system, where it is clear who is paid, where everything is well regulated. put more pressure on the countries to implement this even better, rather than developing new ideas of liberalisation or competition.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the quality of the speeches by our two commissioners allows me to limit myself to two remarks. first, a year after the earthquake, haiti is still, for the most part, a field of ruins. it was known that the country would face considerable difficulties in view of the scale of the disaster. it was also known that in addition to the many civilian casualties, the earthquake had reached the very heart of the state, so great was the damage caused by this natural disaster. add structural difficulties and in particular governance deficiencies to highlight the challenges faced by the actors on the ground. who is primarily responsible for this situation? even if there are mitigating circumstances, the first actor, without which nothing is right, is the haitian state itself. the alternative would be to put the country back under trusteeship, which no one wants. secondly, we can and must be complementary to the action of the haitian state. the european union has also made considerable efforts in this area. the european union has not only made announcements, it has also implemented them. what we expect from the european union in the future is that it will continue its commitment without fail, but above all it is important to help the haitian state to overcome its notorious inability to free itself from this situation of dependence. i admit that this cannot be done in a few months.
in writing. mr orban calls himself a democrat. any self-respecting democrat must accept criticism of his political action. but when the hungarian prime minister describes any criticism of his policy as an attack on the hungarian people, he is gravely mistaken. he's demonstrating by this attempt at nationalist recovery that he's a shady democrat.
in writing. i finally voted in favour of the crossborder healthcare directive. the compromise between parliament and the council is acceptable, in particular because it recognises the right of states to take measures to safeguard the financial balance of their social security system, in particular through a system of prior authorisation for the reimbursement of the costs of hospital care received in another member state. this will prevent any medical tourism. the former commission had gone astray in considering health care as a service like any other. some members of parliament are wrong when they say that 'europe of health is now a reality'. the best possible care will never be available to the average citizen, but will depend on relationships and, most importantly, a well-stocked portfolio. unfortunately, this is a reality which will not be erased by the directive.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the incidents mentioned in the oral question are increasing alarmingly in the sahel region. the first concerns the activities of criminal and terrorist networks of expatriates, many of whom are of impeccable character, like the two french nationals whose tragic fate we deplore. at the same time, each incident contributes to undermining the authority of the powers in power, which aspire to tackle their economic, security and political cooperation problems in a regional framework, whose institutional system is largely inspired by europe, let us not forget. the issues raised in this debate are very relevant. if we are to live up to expectations as the european union, we must first agree on a common reading of the sahel region in particular and of ecowas in general. secondly, we must take to heart both the direct and the underlying causes of the deterioration of the situation in that region. the underlying causes include, among others, the extreme poverty of weak states unable to fulfil their royal duties. thirdly, we need to clarify the eu's strategy in this area. thank you, lady ashton, for bringing this to our attention. fourthly, we must not skimp on the means to be used to help the states concerned to regain control of the situation, particularly in the field of security. in conclusion, to address the problems raised in mr danjean's question is to address our own security.
mr president, i think the importance of energy is clear from the fact that mr van rompuy is not here, as he is giving a press briefing, and mr barroso has left. so much for how important they think it is to listen to us. yesterday, at the invitation of the s&d group, jeremy rifkin was in brussels and he clearly set out a new economic vision. firstly, renewables, which is something we have in place with the directive. secondly, every building consuming 40% of our energy today can be transformed into a low-energy building by using renewables, even in a positive-energy building. thirdly, i think we have broad agreement here that electricity grids need to be speeded up. fourthly, we have to use the next r&d to develop storage technologies and, finally, electric plug-ins. with these five, and of course what fiona has mentioned under the umbrella of efficiency in all sectors, we would, firstly, make our european economy one that is much less dependent geopolitically. secondly, we would save eur 300 billion in transfers outside the european economy and use that to invest in jobs and other investments here. thirdly, the race for green technologies is on; you only have to read the new chinese five-year plan. if, in the next months, we do not create the framework for europe being the lead market for all these technologies, we will lose out on one of the few sectors where we are still leading the world economy. it is such a pity that this is a summit that is not well prepared – mr van rompuy is partly responsible for that, as is mr oettinger. he has not prepared something that is well thought through on efficiency and on renewables and has spent the last three months being the trojan horse for two or three big german power companies who wanted to destroy the renewables industry. finally, something we have achieved: mr oettinger has a 26-to-1 chance of defeat in destroying the national support schemes. only the netherlands is supporting him. this is a considerable victory and renewables will continue. that is the number one energy of the future.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we have known for more than 20 years what the people of south sudan do not want: the sharia imposed by khartoum. this was the origin of a civil war that cost the lives of over 2 million people; the peace agreement signed in 2005 put an end to it. for the past week, we have officially known what the south sudanese want: independence, separation from the north. but it's not just about wanting to, you're also going to have to be able to handle independence on a daily basis. the new state has no definitive border with the north. it is therefore not yet clear how the profits from oil exploitation will be distributed. people are still moving by the thousands from the north to the south; the development prospects are still not very clear, given south sudan's low level of resources on the one hand and extremely low level of education on the other. in short, there is still much to be done in this new state. while the building of the new state is first and foremost the business of south sudanese, independence will be the source of fundamental changes. any conflict between the north and the south will now become an international affair and no longer, as in the past, an internal affair of a state. for the security council, things are going to change. what we urgently need is a clear strategy identifying the major political and economic priorities that can lift south sudanese people out of extreme poverty. the european union must, while fully respecting the principle of self-determination of peoples, nevertheless live up to the expectations of the people of the european union from their traditional main donor. the european union should even take the lead among all the actors who will work in partnership with the new state in the immense task of rehabilitating this part of africa.
mr president, i welcome the future independence of south sudan and i congratulate the south sudanese people on achieving it. as my colleague, charles goerens, who was kind enough to approach me for the occasion, has just said, one can have the right not to live under sharia. it is a right we must honour. but i cannot help but also say that there are some peoples who have the grace to obtain the right to this freedom. besides, the people of somaliland don't have that grace. i would also like to see us reviewing our policy, which up to now has consisted in not recognising the efforts of the people of somaliland who have built a free and democratic muslim state in the region and who are treated as if they did not exist. mr president, on the subject of south sudan, a word on the situation. south sudan remains the poorest country in africa despite the fact that in the last five years it has been able to dispose of half of the oil resources of the whole of sudan. i see a glaring underdevelopment which, up to now, has largely been due to khartoum's neglect and forgetfulness. but from now on, i would like the european union to stress the need for governance and development and i would like us not to contribute to financing underdevelopment which, in the future, would be made a home for south sudan.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr balzani, i thank you very much for giving the presidency and the council the opportunity to speak on an important subject, both from the point of view of trade with the outside world and from the point of view of solidarity and development. i hope that i can answer the questions asked by mr moreira and also answer the doubts and concerns raised by mr balzani. if you'll excuse me, i'll continue in hungarian. - the union and the acp-ec banana producers have made it clear that banana producers are socially and economically essential to the regional banana producers' union. the regulation also provides that the accompanying financial arrangements for the relevant programme shall be established within 18 months of the programme being approved. however, members of the committee are aware that the evaluation of reports is not within the competence of the committee and that the committee is not competent to make such reports. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the acp-eec committee of the regions has decided that the implementation of the accompanying measures requires amendments to the eu rules on the system of financial corrections. the european parliament shall cooperate constructively with the council in the interests of the beneficiary countries in the adoption of the necessary provisions and in the successful solution of the relevant institutional problems. in order to ensure that the allocation of funds between beneficiary countries is made clear, the council has adopted a position in support of the regulation on the allocation of funds between beneficiary countries, which is the criterion for determining the allocation of funds between beneficiary countries. these changes are as follows: the eu's continued banking trade, the importance of banking to the acp economies concerned, and the country's financial situation. the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down specific agricultural measures for the member states and their regions in the framework of the posei programme on 24 september 2010. a javaslatot a tanács előkészítő szervei is currently being examined. as the commission has concluded free trade agreements with colombia, peru and central america in the framework of the banana tariff, i would like to emphasise that the council has not yet formulated a view on these agreements and that its official position is therefore not yet shared. the eu and the andok community have started negotiations on a regional cooperation agreement. the negotiations were suspended in june 2008 because the other countries did not agree to the trade chapter on the objectives of the agreement. in january 2009, negotiations began with other countries, notably colombia, ecuador and peru, to establish a multilateral free trade agreement. in july 2009, ecuador suspended its participation, and discussions with peru and colombia continued. the european commission 2010. a two-country trade and cooperation agreement between the community and its member states and ecuador is open for accession. in the past months, ecuador has officially indicated that it is ready to continue negotiations on a multilateral agreement to join. i'm not going to say anything. the negotiations continued with ecuador, and the negotiations continued with colombia and peru. the commission has therefore requested the member states to make their contribution to the conclusion of the agreement on bananas, and to abrogate the proposal. i'm grateful for their cooperation.
member of the commission. - madam president, madam minister, madam balzani, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note first of all that the main aspects and broad guidelines of the commission's proposal on bananas have been supported by the rapporteur. mrs balzani has, moreover, very well described in her introduction the context in which these negotiations took place and this agreement was signed. the commission fully supports the conclusions of the rapporteur's draft recommendation and the draft report on this issue. it is true that the geneva agreements on bananas in 2009 are very important. mrs balzani has very well explained the reasons for this. i would also like to stress that these agreements will bring peace on this thorny issue and that they will also facilitate the doha process and will set up the conditions necessary for the establishment of a stable and predictable european banana market for the years to come. i would like to return to some of the most important issues raised by the rapporteur and the members of parliament in their oral and written questions and in the motion for a resolution which is part of the package. as regards support for european union producers, i am very aware of the vital socioeconomic role of banana production in the regions of the european union concerned - particularly the outermost regions - and of the concerns about the economic viability of this production in these regions. in a recent report on the posei scheme, submitted to the european parliament and the council in september 2010, the commission explains the consequences of the geneva agreements and the fact that these consequences have already been incorporated into the 2006 reform of the banana scheme. in order to protect european union producers in the context of further liberalisation, the budget for the banana sector was increased considerably by taking into account, in the impact analysis carried out at the time, a tariff reduction larger than that agreed. the commission has nevertheless shown its willingness to monitor closely the impact of the abovementioned agreements on the market and, where necessary, to take the necessary measures to mitigate their effects. on the question of strengthening the position of banana producers in the sector, i would first like to stress that this is not a question specific to the banana sector but that it concerns the whole agri-food sector. these problems of position in the producer chain, of bargaining power, of the distribution of value added in the agri-food chain also concern other sectors. in this sense, in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, the commission will come up with proposals to strengthen producer organisations, their role in the sector and their bargaining power. in addition, the commission has set up a high-level group on the agri-food chain which brings together several commissioners who can come up with proposals in this respect because the responsibility and power of the commissioner for agriculture is limited but there are four commissioners who are part of these groups and who lead these high-level groups, a high-level group with a road map and with proposals, with which the commission will come in the coming months, the coming years to try to provide answers to this question of transparency on the agri-food chain and the power of negotiation. so, in this context, banana producers in the sector will be able to benefit. as regards the allocation of financial resources for the accompanying measures in the banana sector in the acp countries, as you know, the draft regulation establishing what is known in english as the bam was approved by the european parliament on 21 october and it provides for the conditions for the allocation of these resources. so the criteria you asked for already exist and, by the way, the results, the distribution of this envelope already exist. the commission has worked closely and successfully with the european parliament on this subject and a good compromise on the substance of the matter has been reached. the draft regulation on this support for the acp countries has been approved by the european parliament and it also defines the criteria for allocation to the various beneficiary countries, but also provides - as you have asked here - for an assessment of the market situation in these countries 18 months before the end of the programme. this assessment will tell us whether the adaptation processes are well under way or whether other measures may need to be considered. as regards the impact analysis on the effects of the agreements on banana producers in developing countries and the outermost regions of europe until 2020, i am indeed prepared to consider such an analysis if it proves necessary. but we also have to be realistic about the field of study because this is aimed at many countries in the world that produce bananas and many countries for which bananas are also a staple food, and so it will be difficult to set up this study and draw conclusions from it. i am, however, prepared to initiate such a study or to use the data from internal or external studies already available to the commission. as i have already said, we will be carrying out an evaluation of the effects of the bam on the acp countries 18 months before the end of the programme. finally, as regards the negotiations on a free trade agreement with certain latin american countries, in particular ecuador, you are probably aware that the negotiations on the trade agreement with colombia and peru and with the central american countries have been technically concluded, the agreement with colombia and peru being also open to the accession of other andean community countries, including ecuador, if it wishes to return to these negotiations. ecuador has formally requested to return to the negotiating table on the trade agreement and the ecuadorian administration and the commission are studying the possibilities of resuming negotiations and, therefore, seeking agreement on the way forward. these are the few remarks i wish to make in relation to your report and the questions you have raised. i was a little long, but i wanted to give you the answers to these questions i had at the outset.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, one of the constraints of international law is the principle of non-discrimination. that's good! in theory, there's nothing wrong with that. in practice, it's a little different. the acp countries do not pay import duties on bananas when they export them to the european union. it's an agreement, it's a given and this agreement doesn't change that fact. the non-acp countries, on the other hand, which until now paid eur 176 per tonne, will see their entry duties reduced to eur 141. the reduction of the entry fee by 35 euros also changes the competitive situation. the acp countries, which have been more protected up to now, will be a little less so in the future. the commission negotiated this agreement on behalf of the european union. the question is whether, as rapporteur for an opinion, it could have done otherwise. my answer is very clear: she couldn't. if it had done otherwise, if it had refused to enter into these negotiations, the matter would have been settled before the wto dispute settlement body. it is a safe bet that the results would have been different from those obtained in the negotiations which are the subject of this debate. does that mean everything is for the best in the best of all worlds? no, you can't! i am the rapporteur for the opinion on this agreement and i am also the rapporteur on the substance of the accompanying measures in the banana sector, which i will be presenting tomorrow at second reading. i shall make the following comments in this connection. firstly, the budget for the banana sector has been increased substantially. the commissioner has just reminded us of this, which is very good, i note that. this also answers a question from mrs de sarnez, who is very concerned about the new situation created for banana producers in the overseas departments and the outermost regions. secondly, another concern that mrs de sarnez and i, and our committee on development, also share: with the 114 euro, the downward movement is not over because other agreements are being negotiated by the commission, which fall far short of the 114 euro. there is even talk of 75 euros. so, according to the principle of non-discrimination, we will also have to follow this downward movement, which is very worrying. thirdly, as regards the banana accompanying measures, which i shall discuss in more detail tomorrow morning, i believe that parliament has succeeded, and i thank the commissioner for insisting on this point, in introducing some new measures, notably the impact study 18 months before the deadline. it will also allow us to look a little further than 2013, because i believe that with 2013 the problem in the banana sector is not solved.
author. - madam president, i am pleased to be able to support a very ambitious pan-european project, both for the european union and for developing countries, to eliminate tuberculosis through vaccination. it is worth noting that more than 1.7 million people died of tuberculosis in 2009. the cost in human lives is 4,700 people a day. add to this the annual economic losses, estimated at over $50 billion a year in africa alone. to reduce tb to a problem typical of developing countries would be a great deception. indeed, the cases reported in the united kingdom and ireland during the summer of 2010 are a reminder of the presence of the disease in our country, not to mention the devastation that the same disease is causing in the east of our continent, especially in russia and moldova. the tbvi initiative is an initiative to develop effective vaccines to protect people in developing countries at an affordable price. i would like to make the following comments. first, health is priceless, but it comes at a cost. while access to health care must be universal, the ability to pay for it remains limited to industrialized countries. it is therefore important to allocate the burden properly. the patients in the north, that is to say in the industrialized countries, must of course pay the price, otherwise the sources of research funding should dry up rather quickly. however, since the financial contribution from the countries of the south remains, if not non-existent, at least purely symbolic, our solidarity becomes indispensable to fill this gap. secondly, the tbvi initiative also has its place in the eu 2020 strategy. it is a perfect example of what we can achieve if we learn to set health priorities in good time. thirdly, and i would like to end here, this does not exclude additional or complementary financing from the major institutional donors, including the world bank. other states, such as the united states, canada and a number of emerging countries which are directly affected by the problem of tuberculosis, either at the level of their populations or indirectly through international solidarity, should logically also contribute to the initiative. this is the public/private partnership formula. this new approach can be beneficial provided that it limits solidarity to those who have both medical and financial needs. the alternative would be to protect only the most solvent populations.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the draft regulation establishing a programme of accompanying measures for the acp countries in the banana sector enters its second reading today. as a reminder, we argued at first reading for as many measures as possible in favour of the acp banana-exporting countries, whose situation is likely to deteriorate as a result of the entry into force of an agreement with producers in the united states and latin america in the wto to end the trade dispute over customs duties on bananas. the import duties on bananas, as provided for in this agreement, will be gradually reduced from eur 176 per tonne to eur 114 per tonne by the year 2017. on the other hand, bananas from acp countries will continue to enjoy duty-free access to the european union. their situation, which became less favourable after the trade agreement entered into force, led them to negotiate with the european union for banana accompanying measures, abbreviated as bams. our committee on development, of which i am the rapporteur, has succeeded in passing the following improvements on the original text at first reading. among other things, emphasis should be placed on eradicating poverty and improving living conditions as the main objectives of the measures advocated. secondly, that small farmers and small businesses be considered as the main beneficiaries of these measures. thirdly, that the regulation should pay particular attention to environmental, health and labour standards. fourthly, the introduction of transparent criteria for the distribution of funds. and finally, an agreement for an interim evaluation to be carried out 18 months before the expiry of the programme. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. all this progress is largely in line with the acp countries' expectations. the only point of disagreement concerns the horizontal question of the application of the delegated acts to the jrc. it is our reading of article 290 of the treaty of lisbon that strengthens our claim. the european parliament wants to have a say in the strategic decisions taken by the commission in the field of external action financing. so far the council has refused to give parliament the role it should have in the operation of the financial instruments. let us be clear - and i want to emphasize this very strongly - we refuse to take the hat of the obstacle to going round in circles! this is what our parliament and the committee on development are doing in their daily work. i therefore call on my colleagues to maintain the position adopted at first reading and to vote overwhelmingly in favour of the text which i have just submitted to you for approval.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have listened carefully to the numerous contributions. the commission hopes that we will find a solution for these important financing instruments. however, we need to be able to fully implement external relations financial instruments. proper implementation of our external actions should not be taken hostage by a dispute between the institutions. it is difficult to retain credibility vis-à-vis the outside world on such a basis, and this exposes us to loss of relevance as a global player and trade negotiator. the commission stands ready to work towards a rapid solution that is agreed by all the institutions concerned. in the current instruments, which are in force until 2013, which means another two years, multiannual strategy papers are considered to be implementing measures necessary for the implementation of the budget. such measures are subject to the comitology system. strategy papers are technical documents, and so by their nature are not suited to take the form of binding legal acts. the current instruments have only two more years to run and there remain only a few strategy papers to be put in place. the commission considers that to change this system now would require significant changes to instruments, which would take too long to put in place and which would cause major disruption to eu external cooperation. the commission already involves parliament in the process of democratic scrutiny of strategy papers. the commission is willing to reinforce this process with substantive scrutiny rights for parliament. it is too soon to say what the new instruments will look like because they are subject to extensive consultation with stakeholders and to commission proposals. provided that the criteria established in article 290 of the lisbon treaty are fully respected, the option is open to consider recourse to delegated acts in the new instruments, but the commission does not yet have a set view on this question.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken on financial instruments in general and, in particular, on those relating to the report i presented to you this morning. i think elmar brok has found the right words to express what we want. we do not want to be a hindrance to the circle, but we also do not want to give a blank cheque to the executive to implement basic agreements voted by the european parliament in the absence of any parliamentary control. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. that is all we ask for, and nothing else. i should also like to say a word about those who have been more critical, particularly those who have been rather sceptical about development aid policy and those who always refer to the taxpayer as the reason for refusing to support development cooperation policy. in my view, the taxpayer funds a budget. a budget is an act of solidarity with the less well-off. the budget therefore generally allows our countries, thanks to the contributions of the taxpayer, to be on the side of the weak. the alternative would be to ignore the basic rights and fundamental rights of the person thus deprived. i would, however, recommend that these members consult the reports of the united nations development programme and note that those who do the most for external cooperation and solidarity are also those who spend the most for internal solidarity in their own countries. so there is no antinomy between internal solidarity and external solidarity. those who want the rest of the world to believe that any money spent on external solidarity is a waste of our money in all parts of the world would be well advised to look again at the statistics in the united nations development report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive because it is certainly useful to deposit and recycle waste electrical and electronic equipment. but the european parliament is applying double standards when it requires that all electrical and electronic equipment, including light bulbs and small personal hygiene devices such as razors and toothbrushes, fall within the scope of the directive, while photovoltaic modules are exempt. although solar energy should be encouraged, photovoltaic modules contain materials that are at least as harmful to the environment as an electric toothbrush.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate everyone, but i would like to thank mr cancian in particular for his efforts in the difficult and lengthy process of reaching a compromise on this difficult dossier. there have been successes, which have already been mentioned, but there have also been disappointments, for example, in terms of scope and other subtleties, which have already been described. with this compromise on bus transport, we have covered the rights of passengers for all modes of transport. the next necessary step is to create a common, coherent and efficient framework programme for all passenger rights. equitable and clearly defined rights are of particular importance for the eu's credibility with european citizens. in order to be credible, it is therefore essential to respect the coherence of the rights for the different modes of transport. it is not the case that the rights of air passengers are fundamentally different from those of, for example, rail passengers. it is therefore particularly important that when we draw up a framework programme we do not base ourselves on the lowest and weakest standards but that we do not lose sight of ambitious objectives in the interests of the citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the world bank, by virtue of its mandate, is obliged to contribute to eradicating poverty in developing countries. whatever the project supported by the world bank, the aim must always be the same. whether it is an investment in basic social sectors health, education, access to water , the financing of an economic project must be in line with its mission. and if it makes the fight against poverty a priority, we will be satisfied with the mandate we gave to the world bank. as regards the oral question which is the subject of our debate and which expresses its strongest reservations about the financing of oil or coal-based projects, let me make the following remarks: first, the terms of reference of a financing project must incorporate the evaluation criteria from the start of the project. it is necessary to know what is being evaluated and therefore these evaluation criteria must be integrated from the start of a project. second, the policy dialogue between the world bank and its partner must address both the political and economic governance of the country concerned and the borrower. thirdly, where the promotion of renewable energy is possible at a reasonable cost, it is important to give priority to this form of energy. fourthly, and i thank commissioner piebalgs for having already answered one of my concerns in his reply to mrs keller, the european investment bank, for its part, is already taking account of the remarks i have just made. i can only hope that the world bank will adopt the priorities already adopted by others, notably the european investment bank. since the 27 member states of the european union are also members of the world bank, we cannot claim to have no influence on the policy of the world bank. i believe that the pooling of our forces within the world bank would also merit a debate which could be useful in resolving the issues raised by mrs keller, whom i also wish to congratulate on her excellent work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs oomen-ruijten on adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe. the report is full of good intentions, but like the commission's green paper, it leaves open the question of the real political aims of the debate. i cannot help feeling that the deep meaning of this debate is to prepare public opinion for the gradual privatisation of pension schemes. when we look at the losses recorded by private pension funds in europe and the united states during the financial crisis, i prefer to stick to the intergenerational solidarity of distribution schemes.
in writing. to work for months on the sustainability of pension systems in europe, to draw up an ambitious report, to negotiate compromises for hours without wanting to establish the obvious fact that many governments in the european union have committed themselves to reforming pension systems, favouring the path of extending the period of contribution, is for me an act of unspeakable levity. this denial of reality is a grave mistake. the european parliament is not addressing the main points, because this is a divisive issue! i object to this way of doing politics: rather than seeking unanimity at all costs, the european parliament is fundamentally mistaken in its method. his job is to draw consistent and bold lines. this is what our fellow citizens expect, while pension systems, the real achievements of the european social model, are in danger. i cannot therefore support a report which is a waste of time, because it does not take account of the facts.
in writing. i voted for the resolution. croatia clearly has its place in the european union. but i will not vote for any new accession unless the union's budget is substantially increased. we cannot succeed in further enlargements without additional resources for the union.
in writing. the increase in food prices is intolerable. bad harvests in russia and ukraine cannot explain the 91% increases in wheat, much less the 57% increases in maize, 33% in soybeans and 32% in sugar. clearly, the "crazy finance" now speculates in the food markets, never wanting to touch the commodity that is bought and sold again and again. access to these markets should be reserved for professional buyers only. however, the main problem remains the need to increase world agricultural productivity. to better feed 9 billion people, agricultural production needs to increase by 60 to 70 percent. only access to more efficient agriculture will defeat hunger. new seeds, techniques that save more inputs and water, can provide the required yields. each year, more and more farmers are growing gm crops. there are over 14 million of them, working over 10 percent of the world's arable land. only europe claims to be doing without gmos, whereas european livestock are already fed with fodder, two thirds of which comes from genetically modified crops from the americas.
in writing. the current surge in food prices, especially for agricultural commodities such as cereals and oilseeds, is primarily due to natural disasters in russia and australia. even if one might think that this increase in the prices of agricultural products could be beneficial to the income of our european farmers, it must not be forgotten that the livestock sector is experiencing a parallel increase in the cost of animal feed. the european union's extreme dependence on the supply of raw agricultural products is painfully clear, and food security in europe is far from being achieved. one does not have to look far - the north african countries are proof of this - to realize the dangerous repercussions that such insecurities can have. our life insurance is to maintain a common agricultural policy worthy of the name, to ensure a fair income for our farmers and to maintain productive agriculture in all european regions. that is why i have actively invested myself in this resolution and voted for it.
mr president, at a time when we are only just beginning to absorb the effects of the financial crisis, it is certainly not wrong to think about fundamental problems, such as innovative instruments in the field of taxation, and to propose new avenues, such as eurobonds. but for the exercise to be fully valid, realism must never give way to idealism. eurobonds could be a tool for the future if the european union makes a real qualitative leap in economic governance. this is a necessary prerequisite. let's not ignore the problems. the report by mrs podimata is quite simple. let's just take the money where it is and we'll be done. banks are now easy scapegoats. they have sinned, they can pay. that's what the french said to the germans after the treaty of versailles in the 1920s. a keen observer such as the president of the ecb, mr trichet, has warned us very clearly of the dangers of unilaterally introducing a financial transaction tax in europe. i even hear that it is being considered to introduce it in the euro area alone. it's a dangerous slope, our colleague farage would be delighted! so we have to be very careful. that is why i wholeheartedly support the amendment proposed by my group's members and does not close any doors, but calls for a serious study of the consequences of the choices we might make. to choose ideology now is to commit a grave error. i will not be associated with a measure which would only have the effect of penalising the european financial sector in relation to our competitors.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the few men who have found their way to the few women in this chamber. i am of course in favour of equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men. i have been working towards this for over fifty years at national and european level - and with success! unfortunately, the report on equality between women and men in the eu 2010 again contains exaggerated demands which are ultimately counterproductive for women and i cannot discuss them all here for reasons of time. it is not the fault of the rapporteur, but a whole host of amendments have unfortunately made the report rather undigestible. in the context of the controversial question of whether the eu should impose a quota for women in listed companies, i must warn against praising norway as a model. why would you do that? since the introduction of the women's quota in 2003-2009, the number of companies listed on the stock exchange has decreased from 554 to 362. one in three companies cited the women's quota as the reason for withdrawing from the stock exchange. in norway, 70 women now occupy some 300 board seats, known as 'gold rocks'. it's perverse, but it's interesting. personally, i could think of such a career as a 'goldrock', because i have never been on a board of directors. the commission must therefore think carefully and weigh its options before taking any snapshot of this problem. i also regret that this report recommends, in the same breath, that women should have easy access to contraception and abortion. abortion is thus equated with contraception as a simple means of birth control. a treat for the ladies! i cannot agree with that, except that the eu has no competence here subsidiarité oblige! i regret that some of my colleagues keep confusing the two. that's not necessary! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
madam president, i don't know, i didn't say anything until 2011, why did the situation deteriorate? it will not deteriorate if we remain realistic, it will deteriorate if we are utopian and unrealistic. (applause) the speaker also agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
madam president, mr tarabella, i was not talking about mr bloom! you did mr. bloom a huge favor by asking him questions and he could have made a name for himself here. i also thank you for asking me, so i have the speaking time i like to have. but i must say to you, mr tarabella, that as a distinguished member of the committee on women's rights, i can always count on you to be right and i regret that on certain passages in these reports you and i have not been heard.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the management of the h1n1 influenza. however, i would point out that this 'management' was in fact a new capitulation to the 'precautionary principle', which requires action before any serious reflection. the fact that the who director-general has declared a pandemic to be imminent, but has refused to vaccinate herself, is a good illustration of the disconnect between private judgment about the severity of this flu, and the public discourse of those in charge. since the contaminated blood affair no public health official wants to take any responsibility.
in writing. i voted for the report by mr papastamkos because it puts a very realistic light on the european union's trade relations with third countries in the agricultural sector. our trade deficit with the mercosur countries in this area is alarming! the gap between our exports and imports to and from these five countries has doubled in less than a decade to 19 billion imports and only 1 billion exports. the european commission too often makes unacceptable concessions on agricultural products, putting the existence of european farms at risk under the pretext of ensuring better market access for our industrial products and services in third countries. the european union's external trade policy should not sacrifice our agricultural sector, which ensures food security for our citizens, especially in a context of increased market volatility. to avoid distortions of competition, mercosur countries must apply the same standards in terms of health, food safety, animal welfare and sustainable development as our farmers, who are also faced with higher social costs.
madam president, the findings of the oral questions which form the basis of this debate are just one more indication of the limited nature of resources, and in particular of the scarcity of certain essential minerals. in addition, they provide information on the vulnerability of importing states vis-à-vis those that hold a monopoly. the european union must react in two ways. on the one hand, it must ensure that we are not held hostage by defending our position in all forums (wto, g20, un), and on the other hand, it must act within the framework of the lisbon strategy to reduce our dependence on rare earths. the keywords must be effective recycling of materials already used and promotion of research and development programmes for substitute products. finally, in our partnerships with developing countries, the european union must help prevent the plundering of rare earths belonging to these countries. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the stability mechanism we are looking at has been designed in the logic of previous emergencies. it's a life-saving device. in the long run, however, we cannot save states, we must not save states, the aim must be to complete the economic union of europe and to create a european budgetary area capable of supporting the european states and the single currency. this requires going beyond the urgency of the moment. finally, the community institutions must take the lead and we must stop depending on the eternal intergovernmental initiatives, whether they come from france or germany or elsewhere. pierre werner, whose plan can be considered the fundamental basis of the euro, has inserted in his work the notion of a european economic decision-making centre responsible to the parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the next step, after the small amendment to the treaty which we are about to vote on, must therefore be to go back 40 years and finally fulfil pierre werner's wish.
the un human rights council is a unique international platform created to promote human rights and democracy in the world. its work is difficult and extremely important. a lot of positive things have been done, including the special mission to egypt, the decision on libya. however, the council can often be blamed for a lack of political rigor, proactive action and timely response. it is for this reason that, first, it is essential to carry out an objective and transparent analysis of the council's work. the council must complement its operational mechanisms to deal effectively with the lingering problems of iran, belarus, russia and elsewhere, and to respond quickly to emergencies such as... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) active dialogue between the members of the council should also take place between sessions. the policy of the bloc of states, which is beginning to dominate the work of the council, leading to the selective examination of questions, endangering its authority and political credibility, must be abolished. secondly, a more active dialogue with civil society and ngos is needed. thirdly, i would like to stress the need for a more active role for the european union in the human rights council, where we must express a common position. it is for this reason that i call on the high representative to ensure clear and strong representation and coordination in the council. the european external action service, on the other hand, should report regularly to parliament, including to the subcommittee on human rights, on the work of the council and its evaluation. the council's key challenge now is to promote a process of peaceful democratic change in the middle east, to try to prevent the spread of radicalism that would worsen the human rights situation in the region, threaten international security, and also the right to exist of the state of israel, and therefore the egyptian mission must be followed by new missions to other countries in the middle east where the protests have been even more aggressive and the political situation even more complex. thank you.
mr president, in this debate we are going to stress once again the importance of treating social, cultural, civil and political rights on an equal footing. i'm all right. unfortunately, in practice it is not so easy to meet this legitimate expectation fully. why can't we make the human rights of the second generation as binding as the first? this is because the classical human rights, those which originated in the french revolution, are now well codified, whereas, unfortunately, social rights, for example, are not. but we must not be fatalistic. the european union, with its array of instruments, particularly at the united nations level, can exert all its influence to fine-tune texts on rights which are still not sufficiently codified, and in particular social rights. it is also worth noting that through development cooperation and humanitarian aid, this requirement is becoming a little less illusory.
i have to say, madam president, the japanese company toshiba and others who have built nuclear power stations wrote in their brochures 14 days ago that they have the safest nuclear power stations in the world - to the point of claiming that we would then certainly have the safest in europe. i think that this very, very serious and sad accident in japan should also make clear that it is absurd to put a nuclear power plant on the same level as a wind turbine or energy efficiency or a solar power plant in the fight against climate change. and this low-carbon technology idea is just wrong! you have to look at the overall risk of all technologies. and now, mr oettinger, the first concrete question to you: is it not time that you put on the table in the energy road map 2050 at least one scenario which simply shows what we can do with 100% renewable energy, coupled with efficiency? that is the least that can be said to the citizens of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the first stress test of the banks, which was too much manipulated by the national authorities in the sense that a few banks were left out, and then we had a real stress test in the second run. the second is 'independent expertise'. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the national authorities will not admit that the safety checks carried out six months ago are no longer correct. that means we need independent expertise, otherwise you run the risk of dealing with only incarcerated experts. i would be careful, mr oettinger, to regard mr sarkozy as a great hope in the fight for nuclear safety worldwide. i'd be a little more careful than you.
madam president, a word about japan. firstly, everything must be done to alleviate the suffering of the japanese people, who deserve our full sympathy and solidarity. second, in addition to the two natural disasters - earthquake and tsunami - there is a third, nuclear one, thus man-made. all that has been said on this subject can be summed up in one word: the cessation. yes, we are facing a paradigm shift. it all boils down to two questions: what needs to be changed and, secondly, what can be changed in the first place in terms of energy production? i would like to say that if fossil and nuclear energy were no more, we would very quickly be able to get a clearer idea of the potential for the development of renewable energies. the european union is expected to redefine its strategy in this area. to do this, he needs vision, a strong will and a clear road map.
mr president, commissioner, i think we all agree on the importance of tourism. it plays a very important role for citizens in europe, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises. statistical information is of crucial importance. only by establishing a reliable and comprehensive database can policy be made to enable tourism to develop to its full potential. i congratulate the rapporteur on his work and my colleague mr fidanza has just presented the position of the epp. i would like to make only three rather general points. firstly, i believe that we must make practical use of the new political means that the treaty gives us and create added value for the member states. secondly, given that the various financial funds of the european union are and will be under increasing pressure, it is very important to compare the results of the various member states and to choose the best practices and thus to arrive at a certain degree of harmonisation where everyone will be a winner. thirdly, and lastly, it is a question of developing satellite tourism accounts, as has already been done in canada for years, which would make it even easier to determine the impact on the economy, on jobs, on the environment, etc., and thus provide answers to many questions in all policy areas related to tourism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the dramatic events in japan show us that the only absolutely safe nuclear power plant is the one that was never built or that is being shut down. it's the only thing that's absolutely certain. everything else has been untrue since japan. the citizens of europe know this, and that is why they want us to give a strong answer. and the only answer to that question is that we are building europe as a 100% renewable europe in the vision. by combining energy efficiency in homes, transport, industry and electricity with a large and wide variety of renewable energies and the use of natural gas as a transition, this vision can be gradually realised. commissioner, you are currently working on an energy roadmap for 2050. our question to you is, are you willing to work with us on such a vision? do you also believe that this energy roadmap 2050 should be used to discuss a different energy future in europe with not only informed circles but also with the citizens of europe?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, from 1980 to 2011, global gross domestic product increased by $19 trillion. this increase should provide enough money to eradicate extreme poverty. so much for arithmetic. as far as politics are concerned, the improvement of the lot of the poorest is not so obvious. so we have to make the choices that we have to make. first, we must target the poorest countries in our cooperation programmes. secondly, and this is the corollary of the first point, we must gradually withdraw from the emerging countries. china, the largest creditor of the united states, has sufficient resources at its disposal to deal with the poverty within its borders. thirdly, we need strong partnerships with the least developed countries. it's up to them to do the most important things. we can only accompany them with our know-how, our expertise and our political will. it's nothing but that, but it's all that. and, finally, as the main donor, we are also called upon, as the european union, to play a leading role in this conference.
mr president, unlike mr gollnisch, i am of the opinion that we cannot allow the general indifference of the civilians to die out in the face of the force, the violence, which is being used by the illegitimate head of state. un security council resolution 1975 authorizes the international community to block a regime that turns weapons against its own people. in this case, it is a step forward, since we are no longer condemned to watch helplessly as the civilian population is subjected to the barbarism of its rulers. however, while it is welcome that international law now allows the wall of indifference to be broken, it is also important that every precaution be taken to ensure that the use of military force remains the last resort. in côte d'ivoire, president gbagbo has unfortunately done nothing to prevent this fatal outcome. finally, i would like to express the hope that resolution 1975 on côte d'ivoire, like resolution 1973 on libya, will help to dissuade anyone from invoking the sovereignty of a state as a pretext for killing its own nationals. with the international criminal court, with the recent attitude of the united nations security council, barbarism in impunity is no longer the rule, but hopefully soon the exception.
the president of the council. − if you have mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i will speak only in hungarian as an introduction, and then i will continue in english as a representative of the council, but as a representative i have always spoken only in hungarian in this chamber, so i will continue. second, i'd like to ask the president to shut down my computer at any time, so i can get the two minutes at the end of the debate. i hope that the council will be given sufficient time to consider the matter in the light of the discussions that have taken place so far. this debate comes at a time of economic and financial crisis when many member states have had to cut their national budgets and keep their expenditure under strict control. european citizens and taxpayers are rightly paying ever closer attention to the proper spending of eu funds. i therefore welcome the opportunity to present the views of the council and the hungarian presidency during this debate. of course it is right that the budgets of each of the institutions are part of the wider system of control and scrutiny. for too long we have operated under the 'gentlemen's agreement' originating from 1970, according to which both parliament and the council have refrained from examining each other's administrative expenditure. i think we both accept that such an agreement is no longer appropriate in today's climate after the lisbon treaty. that is why the council has proposed, and is ready to discuss, new arrangements for governing the long-term cooperation between our two institutions involved in the discharge procedure. we have put forward a proposal and we look forward to discussing it with you. i strongly believe that it is in both our interests to cooperate in this area, and no less important to show europe's citizens that we are cooperating. i therefore invite parliament to begin discussions on this issue. i personally ask you, mr. president, to do your best to appoint your delegation to negotiate with us at a political level. we are ready to share our ideas with you. more generally we share your concern that the eu budget be correctly implemented. we have examined in detail the commission's annual accounts as well as the observations made by the european court of auditors in its annual report. at the end of february, i myself presented to the committee on budgetary control the council's recommendations on discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget. i welcome the fact that many of the points highlighted by the council have been taken up by your institution as well. the council recommended granting discharge to the commission, and it acknowledged the overall improvements identified by the court. these are part of a welcome trend and are due largely to the efforts over recent years by both the commission and the member states. yet despite these positive signs the overall result is not yet satisfactory and the court still had to qualify its opinion for 2009. i would like to briefly mention these issues: we need a serious discussion; we need long-term cooperation and a long-term agreement with you: following on from the gentleman's agreement that is what we should like to do. we stand by the discharge procedure on the basis of the court of auditors' findings because that is the rule, that is the treaty issue; and we also expect parliament and ourselves to take into account the complexity of simplifying existing regulations and enhancing their transparency. i hope that this kind of problem, whereby the council discharge has been postponed by parliament, will never come up in the future again so i ask that even during the hungarian presidency we should have a political discussion and agreement. that is my personal request to you, to parliament and to you, mr president.
member of the commission. − mr president, first allow me to thank the committee on budgetary control, and in particular the rapporteur mr chatzimarkakis, for their excellent cooperation and the report he has drawn up, including the recommendation that the budget for 2009 should be discharged. i would also like to thank mr staes for his report on the implementation of the european development fund, and mr stavrakakis for his report on agencies. the 2009 discharge procedure is now reaching its end. it was an intensive period in which parliament and commission gave shape to the special partnership between our two institutions. we can observe that both institutions have a lot in common as regards sound financial management and european added value. you have heard the court of auditors and examined its reports. several of my fellow commissioners have conducted a fruitful dialogue with the committee on budgetary control, and a lot of information has been shared with you. i would like to focus on three topics of special interest. first, both the commission and parliament need to reflect closely, together with the council, on how the responsibility of the various financial actors can be better defined and outlined in the legislative framework. the fact that the majority of errors are detected by the court of auditors and the commission in projects and payments managed by member states indicates clearly where more efforts need to be made without delay, as shared management represents almost 80% of the european funds. article 317 of the lisbon treaty explicitly requires the cooperation of member states in the implementation of the budget. to this effect, the commission has put forward consistent proposals in the context of the current revision of the financial regulation. as parliament is now on an equal footing with the council as regards recasting this regulation, there is a real and unique opportunity to reinforce member states’ accountability, and it should not be missed. second, you will undoubtedly share the view that the complexity of the rules discourages potential beneficiaries from applying for eu financial support. in addition, this complexity constitutes a significant source of errors, as underscored by the court of auditors in several of its audit reports. the simplification of eligibility rules and financial processes is a priority objective of the commission in the perspective of the next multiannual financial framework. therefore, the commission has also made proposals for the revision of the financial regulation aimed at clarifying the rules, ensuring their consistency with sectoral legislation and simplifying financial processes. third, these proposals also foresee differentiated control strategies according to the level of risk estimated per programme, action and type of beneficiary. this approach aims at improving the quality of controls by ensuring that their costs are proportionate to the benefits they generate while providing reasonable assurance that the eu budget is managed in accordance with sound financial management principles. i am happy to see that this approach is high on the agenda of the ongoing discussions and the proposals which are on the table really match the commission’s ambitions. the discharge procedure has allowed the commission to learn from the conclusions and recommendations of the european court of auditors and the resolution of the discharge authority at a time when we are considering the future design of eu policies and their reflection in the eu budget. it is now our common responsibility, together with the council, to translate concretely those lessons into a new set of modern and efficient rules and processes which will enable the union to meet better the expectations of our 500 million citizens in a sound and cost-effective way. let me conclude by expressing my special thanks to the european parliament for its continuous support, over the years, of the commission’s efforts to achieve better financial management of the european union’s budget.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds gives me the following reason to comment. firstly, the commission rightly aims to promote regional development in africa. it has two tools for this purpose, in fact two mandates. firstly, it has a mandate from the member states to implement the european development fund, which is financed by national budgets. the same member states also gave it a mandate to negotiate economic partnership agreements. so this is a matter of policy coherence. the commission has a heavy responsibility in this matter. the same commission can, however, rely on the members of the european parliament's committee on development to provide the necessary resources at delegation level. secondly, the implementation of the european development fund is the business of africans, who are co-owners of the european development fund with the european union. it is in the best interests of both partners to make the best possible use of it. i hope that the budgetization of the european development fund, which i also call for - this arles conference, this event that is always announced but never happened - will be able to preserve this originality linked to the existence of the fund. we must ensure that this acquis is preserved.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, on behalf of my group i would like to make an oral amendment to this paragraph. it is a rather technical amendment, but it is not trivial. i propose that for points (i), (ii) and (iii) the future tense be replaced by the past tense. the measures mentioned in these passages have been implemented for a long time - more than 2 years. so there is no point in asking for things for the future when they are already applied in the present. i believe even this venerable house can accommodate that minimum of logic. it should therefore read: 'the european parliament notes that the possibility of receiving a reduced pension from the age of 50 and the possibility of receiving a capital corresponding to 25% of pension rights has been abolished.' it should read "the retirement age under the scheme has been increased from 60 to 63". it should read 'the fund managers have been asked to adopt ...'. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i wonder whether the demagogues in rome and paris and their acolytes here in the european parliament know what they are talking about when they call for the reintroduction of internal border controls. there are over a million european citizens working in other countries. there are 150,000 border crossers coming to luxembourg every day. you want to control them? there are tens of millions of europeans who will be travelling this summer. do berlusconi and sarkozy want to control them at the borders? barroso said: in the schengen area, there are more than 1,250 billion movements every year. you want to control them? mrs malmström, do not touch the schengen area. read the treaties, read articles 67 and 78. it's all there. we do not need to invent something new, let us stick to schengen and the free movement of citizens, otherwise we will have a citizen revolt.
mr albertini, the answer to that is that we adopted amendments 13 and 18 and so the original paragraph on which you had the oral amendment fell. – before the final vote:
mr president, i wanted to support mr albertini. i think we could vote his oral amendment as an addition to the paragraph we voted on because it would be positive if this house were to condemn what is happening in bahrain, especially the death sentences. (applause)
mr president, i wonder if mr bloom is aware that spain is less indebted than britain, that ireland was well below 60% before the banking crisis, and that ireland, by going into debt to save its banks, has in fact saved the money of the british banks.
mr president, in the face of the wild rumors and speculative attacks on certain states, let me recall a few facts. the euro is a strong currency. in ten years, the euro has become the second most widely used currency in the world. 30% of international monetary reserves are denominated in euro. more than one third of all international private borrowing is in euro. the euro has a purchasing power 40% higher than the dollar, which means that the euro-zone countries spend less money on their raw materials, especially oil. the euro is here to stay, and that is true in all the euro zone countries. as much as mrs le pen may dislike it, an exit from the euro is simply not possible. any state that exits the euro - and ms le pen wants to do so for france - would see its new currency devalued dramatically. following the crisis in iceland, the value of the icelandic currency was halved. this 50% devaluation of the icelandic currency has caused the inflation rate in iceland to jump from 5% to 14%. the only way to bring calm to the markets is to allow greece, ireland, portugal and others to restructure their debts by issuing eurobonds guaranteed by the union, thus at reasonable rates. i am referring to the tremonti-juncker initiative. in fact, eurobonds already exist. the european investment bank borrows, with the guarantee of the twenty-seven. last year, the eib raised eur 80 billion at average rates of between 3% and 3.5%. it is these rates that would enable the countries under pressure to overcome the crisis and return to financial stability. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, i have not had a question but a request for a declaration of principle from mr helmer, and mr helmer is simply wrong. once again, a country that leaves the euro would see its new currency dramatically devalued. i refer again to my example of iceland, which is not in the euro but has experienced all this.
mr president, for the last time, does mr madlener know, in his plea against all european solidarity, against greece, that after germany, the netherlands is the second biggest beneficiary of the european internal market and that practically one in two jobs in the netherlands is linked to the export of services and goods to the european union? is he not arguing here against jobs in the netherlands?
mr president, the debt problem is far more than just a budgetary problem. in fact, it is politics as a whole that is being targeted by the public debt crisis - the budgetary, economic, social, european and national spheres. but first of all, we are dealing with a political crisis. in finland, a party which has made the dissociation from portugal its war horse shows how much the problem of debt worries public opinion. however, it should be remembered that the speech of the true finns party, which advocated the refusal to come to the aid of portugal, is like two drops of water to that held by the leading german politicians a year ago, on the eve of the granting of aid to greece. the populist slogans that win major electoral successes, today in finland, tomorrow in another country, are in fact only reiterating words spoken before by highly respected political leaders. it is the political centre that generates the ideas that make it possible to bring about the economic and monetary union. i am firmly convinced that the difficulties can only be overcome if the highest political leaders understand that their role is first to calm tensions rather than to fan the flames.
in writing. i voted against the leinen report which, under the cover of so-called environmental statistics, sets in motion an avalanche of information requiring a huge bureaucratic burden, and all in the name of green evangelicalism.
madam president, the recent referendum on independence in south sudan has opened a new era in the political treatment of the new state. what was once considered an internal affair in sudan became, with the creation of the new independent state, an international affair. any relationship with khartoum, particularly in the field of security, is now an international matter and is logically subject to the application of international law. we therefore welcome the way in which the various actors are carrying out their tasks. the most immediate challenges facing the newly created state are worth mentioning in this context. and among these, first of all, the mediation led by thabo mbeki, president of south africa and the african union, and also - and i think it is important to emphasize this - by mrs rosalind marsden, our special representative in sudan. secondly, the accession of the new state to the cotonou agreements opens up new cooperation prospects for the development of its relations with the european union. i think that is a necessity and we must do everything we can to achieve a rapid ratification. thirdly, the need to develop the capacity to deal with the enormous problems facing the new state, which is still very fragile. here again, the international community is called upon to respond. fourthly, the need to contribute to the development of the north, which must not be forgotten, and which is about to draft a new constitution. finally, there is the dramatic security situation in darfur and the government's unilateral intention to hold a referendum on its status on 1 july 2011. i am of course very pleased with the personal involvement of our development commissioner and his team in this crucial phase. he understood that this decisive period for the future of south sudan was also a test of strength for the european union, and not just for the european union.
mr president, the 500 million citizens of the european union that we are today still represent 8% of the world's population. by 2050, we'll be five or six percent. by 2100, we'll be three percent. this mass of europeans continues to maintain throughout the world, with its budgetary resources, mainly national, 2 000 embassies, 27 armies, 50 mixed bodies and so on. it seems to me that china today is employing additional vice-ministers just to receive all those big european ministers who come to beijing begging for favors and bilateral agreements. this is all starting to become ridiculous on a global scale. to divide another 8% of the world's population by 30 absolute fiscal sovereignty is madness. and, in essence, that sovereignty remains absolute. europe is responsible for 2.5% of what is spent budgetarily in europe, 2.5%, or one-fortieth. the contributions of the member states represent a quarter of their national expenditure. and even that is too much! well, let's get right to the own resources. you're gonna have to hold on to that. but let us stop complaining about the 2.5% of public spending with which we are supposed to maintain all the necessary equipment to implement the 2020 strategy and to meet all the competences and responsibilities that have been bequeathed to us by the lisbon treaty. we didn't invent all this. it was the member states who did it. in the face of these realities, mr garriga's report is modest, but in the face of the ambitions of those who want to limit us even more, it is also ambitious and that is why this house must adopt it.
in writing. i have supported the report by mr garriga polledo because its guidelines seem justified to me in view of the challenges facing the european union in the coming years. it is illusory to transfer new responsibilities to europe without increasing the financial resources at its disposal. i would have liked, however, for the european parliament to go beyond the stage of justified demands and to set a number of priorities. the 'more and more' used by many of my colleagues is too easy an answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the qualitative aspect of expenditure is at least as important as the quantitative aspect. finally, the transfer to the community budget rather than a return to the member states of sums not spent at european union level is a source of considerable 'savings'. as regards the introduction of an own resources system, i remain extremely cautious about the unilateral introduction of a financial transaction tax without a serious impact assessment. the majority in the european parliament is going the wrong way by supporting such a measure without knowing its implications.
mr reul, i will explain why we are not satisfied later in my speech, but i have the impression that you have not yet properly digested what your chancellor and her party in germany have just decided.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the community's own resources, but also of the member states' own resources. cattenom is situated in the approach lane of luxembourg airport and the exact case of a possible plane crash on cattenom is not being examined. the commission itself has tabled an amendment to the first ensreg text to include aircraft crashes as initiating events on page 4 of the ensreg document. this proposal, which was correct, was rejected by france and england. what bothers us is that you fought for it and then you lost and you still won't admit that you lost. that's not honest and that's our criticism! we must make it clear that france and england are not doing the things that we and you want to do at the moment. we have to be honest about this. mr liese, the cdu/csu did not support us in this famous resolution on withdrawal, and mrs merkel is - at any rate today - a little more courageous than you.
mr president, the first precaution to take if we want to prevent a large-scale fire is to refrain from playing with fire. i agree with mr barroso that the greek government must do everything it can to put its house in order so that the european union can do the same. in other words, greece must restore its credibility. should not the same call for responsible behaviour be made to all governments in the european union? are all the political leaders aware of the impact of their statements about greece over the last eighteen months? it is time for the european council of tomorrow to put an end to the cacophony of its members. to avoid the much-feared domino effect of the greek crisis on the euro area as a whole, four things are needed: first, a united greece with a plan for economic and budgetary recovery; second, a european union and a eurogroup united around the same objective; third, a little more time than initially planned, particularly for privatisations; and fourth, a well-understood solidarity, which is not only expressed in new borrowing but above all in technical assistance from its partners, and in particular from the commission.
in writing. the bold and innovative ambitions which our rapporteur had set out at the beginning of our discussions have unfortunately not survived and have had to give way to compromises, some of which are odourless, colourless and tasteless. i can live with that, particularly as regards a more balanced distribution of direct payments in europe to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. but i regret the lack of courage we have shown on the question of greening the cap in all its aspects. our farmers want to produce healthy food efficiently to contribute to the security of supply of our 500 million citizens. 11 member states, including luxembourg, have informed commissioner ciolos in a joint letter of their opposition to the end of the vine planting rights regime planned for 2015. i welcome the fact that the european parliament supports this desire in the dess report. but beware: this must not result in our farmers becoming underpaid landscapers, making us dependent on imports of food and agricultural raw materials from third countries, produced under much less stringent conditions than those imposed on our farmers. i strongly support this position and we expect it to be reflected in the commissioner's legislative proposals.
mr president, while the european parliament can boast of some fine progress in economic governance, i would urge my colleagues to show humility, because we are dancing on the edge of the abyss. we must be aware of two things. the first is that the european parliament has remained silent in the greek crisis. while we are usually so quick to react to all kinds of events with resolutions all over the world, this existential crisis seems to leave us speechless. i am very sorry that we have not been able to send a strong, concrete and simple message to the greeks, to the governments of the member states and to the european citizens. the second point concerns the scope of the package. by voting for these six directives and/or regulations, we will certainly take the euro area one step further towards a discipline that we have so long lacked, one step, i say, nothing more, that will prove useful in the future. however, we have to see the heated discussions around the qualified majority reversed to gauge the distance we have to travel when it should be about rules and automatic sanctions. the mechanism of the so-called overthrown qualified majority continues to act as a scarecrow for some. but we must be firm in principle. on a strictly political level, i regret that the left-wing banks continue to reject the principles of sound budgetary management against all odds. yes, deficit and sustainable growth are antinomic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it's a mild short-term poison, but it's never a long-term solution. the next few weeks are crucial, but today we are talking about re-establishing an economic union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course i'm prepared to say that and confirm it. i would also like to say that we are also turning to the greeks. there are only ten tax evaders in greece who claim to earn more than one million euros a year. i am also addressing them, as mr langen did the communists.
in writing. i didn't approve the whole package. parliament is wrong to call for heavier and automatic sanctions. of course, budget discipline and less debt are needed. but economic policy is not just a mechanical sequence of procedures. the political authorities must always be able to judge the text and the context in order to decide whether sanctions are appropriate or necessary. but above all, economic governance must aim at the best possible future, that is, aim at more economic growth.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, mr werner langen, has just stressed the obligation we have, with this and a few other texts, to draw all the lessons from this financial crisis, which has been of unprecedented violence and which, contrary to what some bankers think, is not over. their crisis may be over, but the crisis is not over, with its economic and social consequences. we have a duty, product by product, sector by sector, market by market, to establish intelligent regulation and effective supervision. it is necessary, but it will not be enough. we also need to ensure that citizens, who are being asked to make a lot of effort at the moment, feel that these efforts are fair and just, as well as necessary. that is why i was pleased, along with president barroso, that the commission was able to propose a few days ago the creation of a financial transaction tax, and that is also why i am currently working on a new framework for a number of bonuses and remuneration which, in these situations, are neither justifiable nor explainable. let us return to the ambitious reform agenda we have embarked upon together. ladies and gentlemen, together with the council we have drawn up the new supervisory framework, a strengthened supervision which was not sufficient for the rating agencies, additional capital requirements for our trading portfolio and - i have just mentioned this - a first framework for remuneration. in a few weeks' time, i will be presenting a basic text on the bank capitalisation rules needed to implement the basel iii measures in july, bank management and resolution in september and finally the major revision of a very large mifid and market abuse directive in early autumn. we are here today to discuss a very important and fundamental subject, as mr langen has mentioned, namely the derivatives regulation to restore the markets to a better functioning, which, as he said, represents 600 000 billion euros in trade. they were at the heart of the crisis, opacity was at the heart of the crisis. the timing of this reform is very important. i repeated this to the finance ministers last week. we have to respect the g20 commitments and implement those commitments and, in particular, this one before the end of 2012. we must therefore respect our commitments and that is why i am pleased, mr werner langen, that you have confirmed your agreement with several groups to give you the few weeks needed to reach a good agreement at first reading. i think it is possible, i think it is necessary. in particular, agreement has yet to be reached on three issues of importance to the commission: supervision, scope and the question of third countries. i would like to address these three points by telegraph, mr president, and first of all the question of supervision, in which i would like to see an important role for esma and the colleges of supervisors. we are talking about markets and infrastructures which are not national but at least european, and often global. effective coordination between european regulators is therefore essential. the commission's proposal on this point seems to me to be balanced. it does not compromise the primary responsibility of the member states for authorisation and supervision, with the important functions you have requested to be assigned to esma and the supervisory colleges. secondly, the scope of the directive. obligations in terms of clearing, reporting and access. i am broadly in favour of a wider field on reporting. i have heard werner langen's position on the obligation to compensate. we know that there is a wide field, with both advantages and disadvantages. while a wide field of application makes it possible to close down certain avenues for circumventing regulation and to ensure convergence with the american approach, the sensitivity of this subject cannot be overlooked. thirdly, a word on the question of third countries. let me be clear, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want any unnecessary duplication of rules. during my last visit to the united states - the third in a year - i identified with the minister of finance, the regulators and the supervisors the risks of what we have called the underlaps, namely the gaps between the transatlantic legislation and the risks of overlap, so of duplication, of superimposition of unnecessary rules. one of the keys to the success of this reform lies in controlling the risks of regulatory arbitrage, as well as the extraterritorial effects of the legislation of third countries on the union. however, we must not be naive. our aim must be to establish a level playing field based on mutual recognition without the extraterritorial application of the law of third countries. it's the sincere and complete reciprocity. i would also like to note that parliament has adopted amendments to define a mechanism for coordination with third countries. i hope we can discuss this further at the trilogue. that, mr president, is what i wanted to say quickly and precisely, thanking once again your rapporteur, werner langen, for the very important work he has done with all his colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs and the coordinators of the various groups, whom i also thank.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, in one minute may i just quote from the report of the us financial crisis inquiry commission on otc derivatives. ‘ the biggest financial institutions drove the market and over-the-counter derivatives after these instruments were fully deregulated in 2000. in the wake of that action, the market for these derivatives spiraled out of control and out of sight, growing to usd 673 trillion in notional amount by 2008. we concluded that over-the-counter derivatives contributed significantly to the crisis. the report explains the unlimited leverage, the lack of transparency, the lack of capital requirements, and the concentrations of risk that proved so disastrous. it also lays out how credit derivatives fueled mortgage securitization and amplified losses from the collapse of the housing bubble. after that collapse, derivatives were in the center of the storm. millions of derivatives of all types between systemically important financial firms were unseen and unknown when the financial system nearly collapsed. the obligations hidden from view added to the market uncertainty and escalated the panic we saw in the fall of 2008, leading to government rescues of financial firms.’ there is a need to regulate, there is a need for transparency. we congratulate werner langen and we will follow.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i fully agree with my colleagues canfin, lehne and ferber that in order to avoid a new financial crisis, we need to strengthen the regulatory framework for markets. this includes the prohibition of all abusive practices. of these, short selling is particularly harmful. bear stearns and lehman brothers were brought to the brink of bankruptcy by short selling on the stocks of these two jewels of wall street capitalism. naked cds is even more abusive. warren buffett called them weapons of mass destruction. in theory, a cds is insurance against the possibility of loss on a financial security. but naked cdss offer the opportunity to insure against a risk you don't own. it's toxic speculation and dangerous for the real economy. at present, some market participants are betting on the break-up of the eurozone and the failure of a state. by buying bare cdss on the sovereign debt of certain states, they only increase the speculative pressure on the states concerned. it is strange that some states - britain, italy, spain, romania and others - do not want a ban on naked cdss on sovereign debt. they believe the market sirens that predict greater volatility in the sovereign debt market if naked cdss are banned. let these governments explain to their public opinion that they would rather submit to insane speculation than alienate themselves from the holy financial markets. wolfgang münchau, a financial times columnist who is far from being a leftist, writes the following: i quote in english: a naked cds purchase means that you take out insurance on bonds without actually owning them. it is a purely speculative gamble. there is not one social or economic benefit. even hardened speculators agree on this point. especially because naked cdss constitute a large portion of all cds transactions, the case for banning them is about as a strong as that for banning bank robberies. economically, cdss are insurance ... a universally accepted aspect of insurance regulation is that you can only insure what you actually own. insurance is not meant as a gamble, but an instrument to allow the buyer to reduce incalculable risks. not even the most libertarian extremist would accept that you could take out insurance on your neighbor's house or the life of your boss. therefore it is absolutely necessary that we reach an agreement with the council, especially on banning naked cdss.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing now is another important step towards recognising the key role of the retail sector in the internal market, in line with the commission's report of july 2010 on the retail and distribution market surveillance exercise. i would like to thank mrs anna maria corazza bildt for her excellent work and her draft report. the commission itself is convinced of the need to give... (the president interrupts the speaker) special attention to this sector, which is a pillar of the european economy. this has already been demonstrated in the commission's report on the surveillance of the retail and distribution market and in the single market act. the commission therefore welcomes the fact that parliament endorses the overall approach proposed in the july 2010 report, which takes into account not only the economic performance of the distribution sector but also the direct impact on citizens, consumers, employees, farmers, smes and the environment of practices and decisions in this sector. the commission also recognises the need to coordinate the various policies and initiatives related to the sector. as such, we will explore the idea of developing a comprehensive european action plan for retail, which would establish a more explicit and coherent strategy for the sector, while building on initiatives already developed by the commission, such as the high level forum on improving the functioning of the food supply chain or the initiatives on sustainable development. i also welcome all the initiatives proposed in the report which are likely to improve the dialogue between the institutions and the interested parties, such as the round table on retail trade to be organised by the european parliament. i have noted that parliament wants to see particular emphasis given to dealing with some of the problems identified in our report last july. i would point out in particular the persistence of difficult to justify obstacles to the free movement of goods and services, and in particular certain persistent difficulties for companies to access certain markets. i would also point out, from the point of view of consumers, particularly the most isolated ones, the growing problems of accessibility to shops and access to electronic commerce. i would point out in this connection the european parliament's concern about national rules which may restrict the establishment of operators from other member states. the lack of loyalty in contractual and commercial practices between companies is a matter of common concern to both our institutions. the commission has begun work on this subject and plans to adopt in the coming months, as requested by parliament, a communication on national legislation and instruments governing unfair business practices and on the problems arising from a european point of view and the possible opportunity for action. finally, i would mention among our common concerns the need to encourage sustainable consumption. in conclusion, mr president, the commission is pleased to see that the trade sector is given the place it deserves because of its economic, social and societal importance. it will give due weight to the problems connected with this sector, in full cooperation with the european parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to say at the outset that there is no miracle solution to the problems of precariousness and poverty. it is enough to review the various forms that our relations with developing countries have taken in the twentieth century: let us leave behind us the colonial era, marked by the subjugation of entire continents to the former european colonial powers. the next stage, post-colonialism, marked by a rather paternalistic approach, produced results, if not mediocre, then very unsatisfactory in view of the considerable needs of the southern countries, especially in the areas of health, education and basic economic development. in recent decades, a policy of cooperation based on a set of values such as human rights, respect for minorities, the promotion of the democratic principle and the rule of law has finally gained ground. the policy which the european union is calling for is to make our partner countries the agents of their own development. hence the notions of partnership, political dialogue and, above all, ownership by the partner countries of their development. the so-called 'budgetary aid' formula also corresponds to the type of relationship i have just mentioned. budget support is the transfer of financial resources from an external financing agency to the partner country's treasury, provided that the latter complies with the agreed payment conditions. at first sight, budget support may seem like a risky undertaking. this is not the case if the necessary precautions are taken to use the funds wisely. any disbursement - and i stress this point - presupposes an appropriate management capacity on the part of the recipient country. it must therefore have a strategy for combating poverty in place to meet the most basic needs of the people concerned. it is also called endogenous development, the only true form of sustainable development. the commission is also very aware of the conditions which the recipient countries must meet, and it has not failed to put in place a set of safeguards which could prevent funds being misused in developing countries. the latter are called upon to promote their capacity for dialogue with their civil society and, of course, first and foremost, with their parliament. another important benefit is that better control of public finances by recipients of budget support can also have a beneficial effect on the ability of their taxation system to generate additional revenue. budget support is not a panacea, however, nor is it a financing instrument available to all countries; it's not that far. the effect of strict conditionality is to exclude a large number of developing countries. mr president, let me add at the end of my speech that i insist that the amendment i proposed in paragraph 1 be adopted. if it were not adopted, i would have to vote against my own report, because it is a trial of intent against the commission, which is a purely gratuitous statement that is not justified in any way. the commission - i have had the opportunity to verify this during our consultations with it - has done everything possible to ensure that disbursements meet the precautions i have just referred to. in conclusion, i would like to say that article 11 goes a little too far. it aims to promote budgetary aid as the practically the only form of development cooperation. this is going too far. this is not in keeping with the realistic considerations which have been the commission's throughout these debates.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i ask to speak again because some speakers have said that the report is not precise enough. i would ask them to read the written report again, where all the conditions are even stricter than what was claimed. i refer in particular to paragraph 32, which speaks of the commission systematically applying a results-oriented approach based on performance indicators, or paragraph 33, which speaks of a strategic decision, or paragraph 34, which recalls that major deficiencies and inadequacies and, in particular, weak governance, are likely to deprive many developing countries of budgetary support. all of you who have expressed criticism should know that budget support is not available to everyone. extremely strict conditions must be met and very few failures are noted, as the court of auditors' report confirms. i would also stress that the international monetary fund is involved in every decision and that the commission also requires the imf's approval before any decision to disburse funds. i don't think we could be more strict. despite all that has been done in this field, i should like to make it clear that we are never immune to a surprise. but let us not be hypocritical, mr president, this is also happening in our countries and within the european union. do we have lessons to teach the rest of the world? can we say that we are safe... (the president interrupted the speaker) of any non-conforming disbursement? mr president, i wanted to make these few points.
mr president, president orbán believes that europe is stronger today than it was six months ago. without questioning the merits of your administration during the presidency, i hesitate to share your assessment. the cacophony surrounding the greek crisis from the beginning, with its negative impact, has not strengthened europe. it's speculation that's stronger than it was six months ago. likewise, the true finns are also stronger than they were six months ago. enlargement, on the other hand - and i weigh my words carefully - will only make europe stronger if it is able to give itself rules which are capable of guaranteeing that all the member states, once they become members of this european union, will respect the copenhagen criteria. the european union is a global community of nations, and not just before but also after they joined the european union. as regards the schengen agreement, i also believe that those who are sceptical, even opposed to the principles it embodies, are unfortunately stronger today than they were six months ago.
in writing. i voted against the lepage report because it does not in any way seek to give the states a free choice to allow or prohibit the cultivation of gmos, but it increases the barriers for countries which, like a growing part of the rest of the world, want to benefit from the benefits of gmos. fourteen million farmers have been growing gmos for years without any negative impact on human or animal health or the environment. but in europe we grow peas, while importing massive amounts of genetically modified soybeans and maize to feed our livestock. this, of course, has no consequences for animals and people, unless we prevent our agriculture from adopting techniques that reduce the use of pesticides, fertilizers and other inputs.
in writing. i did not support the eickhout report, which proposes to go beyond the 20% greenhouse gas reduction target. instead of working towards the so-called europe 2020 strategy, which will be difficult to achieve, parliament and the commission are multiplying ever more ambitious objectives for the long term. in a world where the eu's emissions are continually falling and are approaching 10% of global emissions, europe alone cannot do more and more. instead of setting an example that the rest of the world ignores, let us do what we can here and now!
in writing. i welcome the union's flagship initiative to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020 and recognise its importance for our future common energy and climate policy. i voted for the eickhout report; finally, a new unilateral target of 30% was avoided. i think it is irresponsible, however, that there is no mention at all of the change in nuclear policy by heavyweights such as germany and its impact on the achievement of emission reduction targets and the price of energy in europe. one of the objectives of this report would be the creation of new green jobs. i warn you: we risk losing jobs if we fail to back up our climate policy with a stronger industrial policy. china has already overtaken us in the production of photovoltaic cells by its greater production flexibility and a less restrictive energy policy. i am glad, however, that there is a call for better use of public funds for the development of industries producing the tools mentioned to achieve sufficiently ambitious targets for emission reductions. i think we should go for the long term, invest in research and green jobs in europe, to preserve our financial means to pay for an ambitious climate policy.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am very pleased to take part in the debate which concludes the long process of negotiations on the cross-border exchange of information on road safety violations. this is a very important directive. it will facilitate the exchange of information between member states on persons who have committed a road traffic offence in a member state other than the country of registration of the vehicle. this will allow the owner of the vehicle registration certificate to be identified and will enable national authorities to prosecute road traffic offenders regardless of their nationality. i believe that the adoption of the directive will help to raise the level of road safety in the european union. the termination of the driver's immunity will have a preventive effect. it will deter road pirates who are too willing and too often to flout the rules. the directive's objective is to save lives on europe's roads. despite the obvious benefits of the proposed directive, it has been the subject of negotiations for a long time. the first proposal for a directive was put forward by the european commission in march 2008. it was discussed during the french presidency in the second half of 2008. despite the support of the proposal and its main objectives by the member states, doubts arose as to the choice of legal basis. as a result, the council was not able to reach an agreement at this stage. however, it was agreed that work should continue to find a solution. the council resumed the review of the dossier in july 2010 on the basis of a new proposal submitted by the belgian presidency. it contained a new legal basis from article 87 of the police cooperation treaty. on 2 december 2010, the council unanimously adopted an agreement on this proposal. the council's position was transmitted to the european parliament for first reading on 24 march 2011. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ayali sender, and the hungarian presidency for their efforts to overcome the various obstacles to this difficult compromise. the last point of contention in this dossier was the issue of convergence tables. finally, an agreement was reached through a joint statement by the european parliament and the council and a separate statement by the european commission. i very much regret that some members of this house are questioning this part of our agreement. it took us a long time to reach this agreement and it would be extremely difficult to explain to the citizens of the european union why a legislative act of such great importance was blocked at the final stage because of a difference of opinion on a strictly technical issue. the convergence tables are one of the points of contention between the council and the european parliament. the polish presidency will seek to reach an agreement on this politically sensitive issue. however, this will be much more difficult if individual acts, such as the one the european parliament is debating today, are blocked after agreement has been reached on their merits. i therefore ask the members of the house to respect the outcome of the negotiations between the council and parliament and to vote in favour of the adoption of a directive which will help us to improve safety on europe's roads.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the efforts and commitment by all parties on this important issue, eu road safety policy. against this background, i would like to thank all actors for their spirit of compromise and i would like to thank inés ayala sender for her contribution, which has enabled us to try to achieve a second reading agreement on this long-awaited piece of road safety legislation. i would like to single out the following key points on which the text has been significantly improved as a result of intensive negotiations between the council and parliament: the data protection regime, information letters to offenders, the revision of this directive – with a clear perspective on future initiatives concerning the road safety guidelines – and reinforced enforcement mechanisms. i would like to reiterate that the commission still considers that the legal basis for transport was more appropriate for this directive, but we can accept the substance of it. the commission, as an honest broker, supported both the council and parliament in order to find a balanced and satisfactory agreement. the text of the directive, as it stands now, offers a good mix of flexibility and ambition, as requested by the parliament. the commission regrets the absence of correlation tables in this text but, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of the proposal, can accept the substitution of the obligatory provision on correlation tables, including in the text with the relevant recital encouraging member states to follow this practice. i would urge you to accept the text in a second reading agreement and not risk reopening all points in conciliation for the sake of a horizontal issue such as a correlation table. i would like to make a few remarks concerning the history of this document, or this decision. when we started to push this decision it was considered to be heresy. it was considered by the member states as an insult and an attack on the sacred principles of subsidiarity. the member states finally reached a compromise and made a decision. it was very close to failing to do so, but now the council has reached a compromise. i have to ask you to wait: we have not yet reached an agreement on two issues – correlation tables on one hand and 250 million vehicles on the other – in this long-awaited decision to deal, finally, with cross-border traffic violations. numbers show, for instance, that a foreign driver is three times more likely to commit an offence than a resident driver. eu figures suggest that foreign drivers account for 5% of traffic, but around 50% of speeding offences. so we must wait for a solution on these two things. it is a long-awaited piece of legislation. it was not easy to reach a compromise in the council. if you think that the council is a homogenous body which now opposes parliament on the sole issue of correlation tables, this is not the case.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ayala sender, for her report. as we have seen, the council has been blocking progress on this issue since 2008, until a compromise was finally reached under the belgian presidency. as i have said, the aim is to make it possible in future to prosecute various traffic offences across europe by improving the exchange of data between member states. the ultimate objective must be to increase road safety and reduce the number of road deaths and injuries. the directive, together with the report by mr dieter koch on road safety, which contains a number of very specific proposals, can also contribute to better compliance with these rules, given its repressive nature. i do not need to go into these rules, they have already been presented positively here. the change in the legal basis from european transport policy to police cooperation has finally allowed the council to draw up a common position. however, this means that some countries, such as the united kingdom, ireland and denmark, are excluded. so once again, not all european citizens are equal. the citizens must be aware of their data protection rights. we have tried to strengthen this aspect so that access to the data collected, their transmission and their storage are regulated as strictly as possible. we also took the information very seriously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that in the coming years we can build on this foundation to take a step towards greater harmonization of european transport regulations. the revision clause introduced by parliament would certainly allow such a procedure. i very much regret that this text has now been caught up in the whirlwind of institutional conflict between the council and parliament over the correlation tables. we agreed during the trilogue to find an overall compromise in the joint declaration on this subject. i would like to remind you that tomorrow the european union will be... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr de grandes pascual, for his valuable work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. we must do everything we can to ensure the safety of passengers, with particular regard - and this has been said on several occasions - to the protection of the health and privacy of air passengers. i believe that this report contains important guidelines on these two points. however, today's decision allows for the scanner, but does not make it mandatory. each member state decides on its own how to use the technology. the result is not a homogeneous level of security in the eu, but again a patchwork of countries using this technology. there is no such thing as absolute security, but the system should be as coherent and efficient as possible, and technology is only one aspect of this. it can be as good and advanced as it wants to be, but it also needs well-trained and motivated security personnel behind the machines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. another important aspect is the inspection of the cargo. the report also calls for more use of scanners and specialised staff. i think that there must also be a strengthening of controls at airports outside the union.
mr. speaker, mr. farage always reminds me of a cock without a tail, who yells his paws on a pile of manure. but from his side, i heard only criticism; he never made any suggestion as to how this europe could be changed, nor did he indicate what his vision was for this continent. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, it is after tirades such as the one mrs le pen has just given us that we realise how much we need reports such as the one we are about to vote on. this report, contrary to what a number of colleagues are arguing, is not unrealistic. the fact that we say we need more resources in europe does not make us unrealistic. we would be if we said that we have the means to achieve all our ambitions now and that there is no erosion of national sovereignty. the erosion of national sovereignty exists and serves to fill the gaps in national sovereignty; it is europe that needs the means. and if this report is so proud of providing europe with the means it needs, it is only more realistic. moreover, we must have the courage to tell the truth: the problem is not that the citizens of europe do not want more europe; the problem is that they do not want to see more europe. the problem is that all these political actors continue to make europeans believe that we can do all this without europe, and that the nation state will be able to solve all the problems. i ask you: where is the nation-state in the face of the pressure of today's rating agencies? where is the nation state that can turn the steering wheel of this multifaceted crisis, which is undermining the recovery efforts of millions of europeans? europe will be able to solve these problems, not the nation state. it is no longer able to do so in 2011, nor will it be able to do so in 2014. we will need more europe, and this report shows the way and tells us how to get there.
in writing. the regulation approved by parliament today aims to provide consumers with more and better information on food so that they can make an informed purchasing decision. the european food industry, in particular smes, which account for 80% of food production and processing in the eu, will also benefit from this new regulation through greater legal certainty, less red tape and better regulation. i congratulate the rapporteur on her successful defence of a misleading traffic light label. such labelling would have demonized a number of foods, such as olive oil or some dairy products, and falsely promoted other aspartame-sweetened 'light' drinks. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. i voted for the report 'politics is the art of the achievable' even though the commission's report on the possible nutrition labelling of alcoholic beverages is due in three years, not five, as originally planned.
in writing. i have endorsed the report on the exchange of information between member states on road safety, which will lead to the cross-border prosecution of serious traffic offences across europe. drivers who commit crimes outside their country will no longer go unpunished. however, i would like to warn against an ever more intensive system of policing and surveillance. for example, i don't consider it a serious offence to use a phone while driving. we will never achieve zero risk, even if we build a europe with cameras like a maximum security prison. we must not sacrifice all freedoms to the desire for security.
in writing. i abstained on the report on aviation safety. once again, absolute security is sought, but at the expense of human rights. forcing all passengers to strip naked through so-called security scanners is not a step forward in human dignity.
mr president, our colleague, mr louis michel, has just developed a very interesting idea which is aimed at isolating syria diplomatically. he also called for the return of all syrian ambassadors to europe. i would like to ask louis michel whether it would not be appropriate to make the same proposal to the un security council, in order to have a stronger impact on the damascus regime?
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i have the privilege and honour today to speak on behalf of the polish presidency in the debate on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy market transparency. the work on this regulation has been proceeding at an extraordinary pace. the commission only presented the draft last december. i would like to thank the hungarian presidency for giving us the opportunity today to discuss the negotiated text of the regulation. i would also like to thank the representatives of the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur, mr jorgos chatsimarkakis, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their valuable contribution to the work on this regulation. i would also like to point out the particular contribution made by president herbert reul to the work on this regulation. the polish presidency attaches particular importance to the internal market. it is the foundation of european integration and one of the key drivers of economic growth. the presidency's priority is to pursue the deepening of the internal market and to complete its construction so that its growth potential can be fully exploited. it should become a key element in restoring the competitiveness of the european economy and overcoming the effects of the crisis. the establishment of a fully functioning internal european market in electricity and gas has been a particular concern of the council, the commission and the european parliament in recent years. it's becoming more and more liberalised and connected. to ensure its proper functioning and to realise its full potential, it is necessary to ensure its transparency throughout the european union. citizens, businesses and authorities need to be convinced that it is working properly. the current system of community law is not sufficient to combat abuses in energy trade. europe needs a strong energy market, integrated, transparent, with the ability to react quickly to any manipulation, or even attempted manipulation. the functioning of a well-developed and liquid wholesale gas and electricity market gives businesses the confidence to be able to react flexibly to changing market conditions. to this end, close cooperation between acer and national regulatory and other competent authorities is provided for. to that end, uniform rules have been established on the scope and method of data collection, information and monitoring of wholesale gas and electricity markets. at this point, i would like to point out that the remit regulation gives a specific implementing role to the regulatory agencies. a special responsibility will lie with the executive director of the agency, alberto potočnik, who is present and following our debate today, and with the agency's board, chaired by piotr woźniak, who has also honoured us with his presence. the regulation clearly defines the concept of abuse and prohibits abuse in the wholesale market for electricity and related products and in the wholesale market for natural gas and related products. these provisions explicitly prohibit insider dealing and market manipulation. the rules have been formulated in such a way as to be consistent with the market abuse directive (mad) and the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid). this regulation is an important step towards achieving our objective of completing the eu internal energy market by 2014. we all agree that the energy market must be competitive and dynamic. however, in order to develop properly, it must be based on transparent rules governing the sector. the regulation under discussion today is one of the elements that constitute this market in a new dimension. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i would like to express my particular gratitude for the increased efforts made by all the institutions during the negotiations which led to a successful outcome in the form of a political agreement on 23 june. we worked very hard and quickly, and as a result, we reached agreement on the first reading in just a few months. i would therefore like to call on members to vote in favour of this act, which is a compromise between the commission, the council and parliament and which will help to increase the integrity and transparency of the energy market.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the internal market for electricity is 15 years old, and european legislation on gas has been in place for 12 years. we've been working on it ever since. the internal market means transparency for the consumer, competition between suppliers of products and services and the application of market economy rules. it is therefore logical and a major step, i believe, that on the way to creating the internal market - we are pursuing it with all the technical, economic and competition law further steps and measures within the next four years - now also specifications against possible market abuse are being made. liberalisation and the single market for electricity and gas have changed and developed the landscape of stock exchanges and trading venues. the very functioning of trading markets, trading venues and exchanges requires clear rules and limits. without it, a secure and sustainable energy supply, fair and affordable, would be difficult to imagine. the wholesale prices at issue today and wholesale markets are also relevant to the consumer, at least indirectly, and affect the amount of his future energy bill. the proper functioning of commercial markets is therefore in the interest of all, first and foremost of consumers, the european citizens, but also of market participants, who are suppliers of products and services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. and this regulation, as the rapporteur has already said, is a lex specialis. we have long considered whether general market rules 1:1 are not applicable and have come to the conclusion that the specific nature of energy markets also requires special regulation and special procedures and special authorities to prevent or detect and sanction market abuse and attempted manipulation. we have a clearly defined code of conduct, which together with the european market observatory, which is based at acer, and with clear authority, constitutes a regulatory framework applicable to energy trading markets and which we believe sets international standards. i would like to thank everyone for the intensity and speed of the consultation, the parliament, you, mr chatzimarkakis, for your intensive work. the fact that it was possible to conclude the discussions within six months is due to the goodwill, competence and integrity of all the members, but also to the hungarian presidency of the council during those six months. i'm grateful for that. the fact that we have received suggestions for improvement is also an indication that constructive consultations have taken place. we believe that this proposal is a fair trade proposal and that the division of labour between the european level and the regulators at member state level has been determined on a case-by-case basis. we have not brought everything to the european level, but in a european single market not everything can be at the level of national regulators. we shall start implementing the regulation immediately after you have adopted it tomorrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. we are building on acer and good cooperation between this european authority and the regulators of our member states. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to propose a regulation on the financial aspects of the common agricultural policy. the european rules of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the market abuse directive (mad) apply in principle also to energy market players. both are currently being revised to meet new requirements in the financial markets. i therefore recommend that you also take an interest in the further development of these general rules, which are also important for the energy and wholesale markets, and that you draw on your expertise in the energy and industrial sectors. we will ensure that the changes affect the energy market only to the extent strictly necessary. it is important to me that those who trade in energy not primarily for the sake of trade but because their main business requires it are not burdened with excessive rules. the point is that not everything that has to be true in the financial market is also true in the energy market, but often regulation can be too far-reaching. thank you very much for your very constructive parliamentary work.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, 60 seconds to defend the interests of consumers against abuses in the energy market is not enough. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a compromise between the two legislative branches and, as usual, the council has been less ambitious than the european parliament. it is often said that lobbyists have too much influence on the european parliament, but i have noticed that national lobbies seem to sleep in the ministries. i had personally called for the utmost vigilance in the face of attempted market abuse and insider trading. i do not like very much that the text we are about to vote on accepts - and i quote - "admissible market practices in the wholesale energy market". some questionable practices should be eliminated. i would also have preferred stronger sanctions, particularly at european level, and not just 'effective, proportionate and dissuasive' sanctions. experience will tell whether the sanctions, which will remain national, will be sufficient. i would like to conclude, mr president, by stressing that the agency should not be 'provided with the appropriate human and financial resources' as the text says, but 'should be provided with' the same human and financial resources. (the speaker referred to the text of the english version of the minutes.)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, when the commission and parliament join forces and when we have a presidency which makes things move, then europe will go in the right direction. the regulation on energy market integrity and transparency (remit) is a step forward to prevent the scandal of insider trading and manipulation. i think this is good for consumers, citizens and companies in europe. however, there are two or three things which i think we now have to get right. the first, which robert goebbels mentioned, is sanctions. it is really important that the commission keeps a very close eye on how sanctions are transposed nationally, because we do not want regulatory dumping to attract certain traders to certain places. this must be prevented. secondly, we have put the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) into the driving seat. we need a european referee for the european market, but it is clear that the 15 people additional people at acer envisaged in the original commission document will not be able to do any more than just automatic screening. what we need at acer is a preliminary analysis, because otherwise they will flood the national regulatory agencies with potential cases every day. this is not an intelligent way to proceed, nor a good use of time, for acer or for the national regulators. so my question to you is how can we make sure that acer gets enough staff? acer also needs a very highly sophisticated and secure ict system. it is not secure today and we need to secure it. there are three issues for which we greens have fought hard. one is regional cooperation between the national regulatory agencies. that is now in the text. it is clear that the markets are regional and so we need more regional cooperation between regulatory authorities. the second concerns minimum requirements for trading floors. in future, we want all trading to take place on trading floors and for there to be less over-the-counter trade done in dark rooms. for this we need minimum requirements. lastly, we have established acer as a trade repository, which means that academics, not only in europe but worldwide, can now follow what is going on in european electricity and gas trading. we have also established a link to co2 trading, which means that there will be an increasing level of external expertise to help us see where the weaknesses in the system are. i would like to thank our negotiation team. i think this is an honest result of our efforts.
mr president, let me simply say that mr farage, who is so anti-european, and who is here in this building, has chosen to shine by his absence rather than join in the mourning of the democrats.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, compassion alone will not solve the scourge of the horn of africa. soon, the images of children who have nothing but skin on their bones will cease to move us, either because we will eventually get used to them or because they will no longer have access to the 8 o'clock news. but we must be vigilant if we are not to be guilty of the greatest failure to assist populations at risk. it is with heart and reason that we must meet the current challenge of the horn of africa, which is facing a series of failures and failures: climate change, the development of agricultural production in recent decades, security in the region, governance in a region controlled by militants or terrorist networks, attempts by humanitarian actors to gain access to the provinces most affected by famine, respect for the impartiality of humanitarian actors, the death of tens of thousands of people deprived of the essentials. so much failure. this list is not intended to be exhaustive. if we are not careful, this already too long list may continue to grow. but not all is bad. there are glimmers of hope. where will the answer come from? africans first. this is the first time that an african summit has been organised for this purpose. you have to salute him. it is commendable that it is being held under the aegis of the african union, and it is also encouraging to see african states mobilizing their own resources to meet the expectations of the victims of famine. the scale of the disaster is, however, beyond their means, which are inadequate in any case, and the european union, as the first donor, and the member states have responded to help alleviate the suffering in the immediate future. that's very good! the limits are known, but i believe that everything has been done to alleviate the suffering of the people. however, the european union is more than a humanitarian actor, as the commissioner has just said. it intends to contribute to the development itself in the long term, to sustainable development, which africans will have to take control of. the african union, which is gradually taking over security development, is thus showing the way forward in the horn of africa. it's not going to be easy, but you have to go through it. i would like to conclude by paying tribute to all the humanitarian actors, the non-governmental organisations, the european union, the member states and the united nations system for the aid that has already been mobilized in the hope, of course, of putting an end to this suffering.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate our colleague, carlo fidanza, in particular on this very successful report on a new policy framework for european tourism. in europe, tourism is a large and important sector, which involves economic, cultural, environmental and - not to be forgotten - transport-related factors. the text also provides a good basis for stimulating cooperation between the european institutions, the member states and the tourism sector on the ground. the aim should be to provide, through concrete actions, a european dimension with high added value to national and regional initiatives. in this report we are in favour of promoting a more sustainable, responsible and competitive tourism. in my view, sustainability and tourism responsibility are not limited to the environmental aspect, but also have an important social dimension. tourism enterprises are required to adopt a socially responsible policy, creating quality jobs for qualified staff, while facilitating and improving the mobility of employees in this sector. in conclusion, i would also like to mention the pioneering activities of the european institute of cultural routes, based in luxembourg, but also the projects carried out under interreg, and in particular the many initiatives launched in the region, for example in luxembourg, belgium and germany, which can serve as models and should be further promoted. i hope that this important work will continue to be supported by the european commission and the member states.
madam president, there are no 36 ways to improve the european union's disaster response capacity. prevention, coordination and sharing are the key words of the policy in this area. prevention, through a policy more focused on sustainable development, coordination and the permanent exchange of information to avoid duplication, the pooling of resources available to the member states of the european union, for the sake of efficiency, on the one hand, and good management of public money, on the other. could the commissioner indicate the main obstacles which still stand in the way of incorporating these principles into european union policy? could you tell us, mrs georgieva, what are the main difficulties you still have in the member states in respecting these principles or in achieving the objectives to which the lisbon treaty invites us?
in writing. i agree with most of the objectives of the road safety report. 35,000 killed a year in europe, that's huge. it's an annual tsunami, except these deaths are usually anonymous and largely ignored. when we think of the fiery speeches about the civilian nuclear casualties, which have been a few thousand in chernobyl and so far zero in fukushima, we are left with a dream. i support many of the proposals in the report concerning the technical improvement of vehicles and road networks. however, i do not believe that the repressive measures will continue to be tightened. the alcoholism rate at 0 ‰ is ridiculous, because most drivers who drive drunk are well over 1 ‰, sometimes 2 ‰. it is not by making it illegal for any driver to drink a glass or two that one avoids irresponsible drivers. it should also be noted, in the words of those who oppose motorways, that they are the safest roads, with only 6% of fatalities.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, we can always discuss tastes and colours. some choreographic performances that we can observe do not find my spontaneous approval. however, when the eurogroup meets at the level of heads of state or government, it is not the creation of a new institution. the eurogroup derives its own existence from the treaty of lisbon, which expressly provides that the members of the euro area particularly when it comes to coordinating, in a broader and more intimate way, all economic, social, financial and budgetary policies of the euro area meet at the level of heads of state or government. i'm not offended by that. the finance ministers meet once a month, the heads of state and government twice a year; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the fact that the heads of state and government of the euro area - who still bear the overall responsibility for the policies implemented - meet from time to time to discuss, decide and give impetus to the eurogroup at the level of finance ministers is a prospect that neither scares me nor bothers me.
mr president, mr prime minister, i agree that it is useless to invent new institutions every time, and i support that, because as a general rule, it is not we who do it here, but the european council, or at least some of its members. however, as long as we are still experiencing the acceleration of this infernal crisis spiral in which it is really not useful that, three times a day, we are presented with one or the other new proposal; the commission has already made a number of proposals, one on life jackets, the other on new institutions. would it not be useful to try to communicate with the markets or with those who claim to be these markets so that we can finally work on the final architecture of a federal europe, which will also be able to support a monetary union?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, to the second question i will answer that, of course, the level of unemployment in greece is of concern to me, as it is in certain other countries. the general average unemployment rate in europe, which is 10%, is not a level that we should accept forever. that's a long way from full employment. but according to the treaty, one of the objectives of the european union is to ensure full employment in europe. of course, that is not the case at present. i attribute this worsening of the unemployment situation in greece to the fact that the recession is more pronounced and deeper than the troika had estimated during its last visit, when the fifth tranche was released in greece. i am not a member of the troika and therefore not responsible for his whereabouts. i believe, however, that the troika left athens because there were difficulties in finding a compromise between what the troika thought greece should do and what the greek government was prepared to do. since then, the views have become much closer. i believe that the troika will return to athens tomorrow or the day after.
mr president, i am assuming that the euro will emerge from this crisis strengthened, even if the coming months will be difficult, especially for our humblest citizens, who will inevitably suffer from the austerity measures taken here and there. in this context, should the european union not declare a moratorium on all the so-called environmental taxes that will be imposed on our fellow citizens in the coming months: more expensive electricity, taxes on fuel, taxes on air travel, and so on. europe wants to set an example for the rest of the world, but it is clear that the rest of the world is not following. our share of co2 emissions has fallen from 14 to 10 percent, which means that everyone else has gone up. do we really need to overload the boat for our fellow citizens?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i agree with you, madam president, that we cannot but admire the resolve of the irish people and authorities in the face of the crisis in ireland. the irish case shows that it is perfectly possible to combine the strength, self-responsibility and solidarity of the other member states in order to formulate a response that allows a country to emerge from a situation which has been, as in ireland, alarming. as for the rest, and as far as greece is concerned, you are aware that the european council of 21 july decided to propose a whole range of measures of administrative assistance to greece. there is a task force in greece, shared between brussels and greece, which is working on the important issue of the mobilisation of the structural funds. all euro area member states have offered greece their administrative know-how, particularly in the area of tax collection - a key weak link in the greek administration. we are therefore fully prepared to provide all the support and assistance that greece may need. in fact, greece needs technical and administrative assistance, and the other eurogroup member states are quite willing to put these administrative elements at its disposal.
mr president, mr prime minister, you mentioned the need to invest. i think that in this room, we all want to invest in research and innovation. but unfortunately, we often do it with public funds. i would like to propose another area in which to invest: i want to talk about energy. invest in indigenous renewable energy. invest in the renovation of buildings in europe. invest in the modernisation of networks in europe. these are investments which may be made by private investors. why not organise a summit meeting where the european investment bank, pension funds, the major european energy companies, private banks holding the savings of citizens, which are still plentiful in many countries, come together and develop an investment programme that does two things: create added value in europe and reduce our energy dependence, and all this on the basis of private investment. this would be a way of not being as dependent on public funds as we are for research and innovation.
mr president, i would remind you that i was here this morning from start to finish. i have indicated my intention to put a question to the three commissioners present. no follow-up! this afternoon i was there from start to finish, and i expressed my wish to put a question to mr juncker. no follow-up! i think that all those who feel excluded from the dialogue with our guests should at least be informed in the middle of the sitting that they will not have a say in the chapter. they may then make other arrangements.
i would like to continue with what mr goerens said, but i would also like to point out that you gave the floor to colleagues who came very late and left immediately after they had asked their question.
mr president, i would like to say to the president of the commission that europe needed this speech. you've rarely been more in tune with your audience. another diagnosis? yes, but with undeniable determination. this is in contrast to the rather muted role played by the commission in recent years. i am sorry to say, however, that i am still somewhat doubtful. those who have been holding the brakes for years in our member states are not here today to tell us whether they are behind the broad lines of your speech. one speaker has just said that the ideas of robert schuman and jean monnet are over 150 years old. let me remind you that in an attempt to defeat the ideas of jean monnet and robert schuman, mr zahradil has just used ideas that are more than 150 years old.
in writing. i voted with the large majority of the socialists against the 'economic governance' package. budgetary discipline is simply necessary. the member states must accept being monitored and, if they slip up, be called to account. but i am against so-called 'automatic' sanctions taken at the level of senior officials, even if they are commissioners. the elected representatives of the people, the deputies, the ministers must take their responsibilities. it's called democracy. furthermore, i don't think the markets are going to be impressed by the economic six pack. the horizon of most traders is so limited by the lure of profit that an economic six-pack is at best six cans of beer. instead of self-flagellation on fiscal policy, the european union should put pressure on the markets by imposing restrictions on speculative operations and transparency on all financial transactions.
in writing. the vote on the economic governance package, and especially the wortmann-cool report, is an important, albeit belated, step in the face of the eurozone crisis. it is a good thing that the council has conceded on some key points which will help to strengthen the stability pact, whose repeated violations have led to the current impasse. the stability pact will be a means of avoiding the typical exits from the road. however, its application will only take place once a way out of the systemic crisis of the euro has been triggered. the current situation calls for emergency solutions which the institutions must put in place quickly. in view of the issues at stake, i regret the deplorable attitude of the socialist group, which has walled itself in sterile opposition instead of joining the europeans who are convinced of the need to strengthen the stability pact. one hour after the socialist group president, mr schulz, had said that the resolution of the crisis required stronger community institutions, safeguarding the community method, his group chose political policy by rejecting the agreement on economic governance. the socialist group has done itself the worst possible service at the moment.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for this very important debate. resettlement is of course an extremely important life-saving measure for the most vulnerable people, but it is also a way to show solidarity. we have all rejoiced at events as the people of tunisia, libya and egypt have risen to throw out their dictators and call for freedom and democracy. in the war in libya, trying to throw out gaddafi and his regime, we have all supported it and do support it. it has led to a lot of refugees. many of these people have gone to libya. many of these people have been able to return to their home, their country of origin, with help from the european union, we must remember that. the tunisian authorities have also done formidable work to ease the situation. some people might still be able to go home and some, as was said, could maybe go back to libya when the situation becomes a bit more stable, but there are people who cannot return. i have also been to the camp you referred to in tunisia and i saw people from eritrea, from somalia, looking at their fellow refugees in the neighbouring tents, disappearing one after another, being sent home or somewhere else, asking, ‘why? what will happen to me?’ they cannot go home, they have no state to go to because that state is a failed state, or they are persecuted. we must help these people. member states have done a lot. some have offered resettlement. some have offered more, and that is still to be processed, and i want to thank these member states. i think we should also thank the us, australia and canada, because they have taken a lot but, dear friends, it is our neighbourhood. we are the european neighbours of these countries. we could do much more and i hope that we can after this come together even more, ask member states to do more, to take responsibility. we are certainly willing on the commission side to do our part. we have called for pledging meetings. we have asked the member states, we have put resources at our disposal, we are even offering transport support for these people to come to the european union, but member states must also now live up to their promises and their nice words about solidarity.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank mrs berès, the rapporteur, and the committee on employment and social affairs for taking over without amendments the commission proposal to extend from 31 december 2011 to 31 december 2013 the crisis-related derogations set out in the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund. given the current worsening of prospects for the economy, i think the only acceptable message that you can send people, and in particular the workers, is that the eu will continue showing solidarity and offering support to workers who lose their jobs as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis. in these times of alarming budget deficits and public debt, keeping the co-financing rate for actions supported by the fund at 65%, rather than reverting to the pre-crisis rate of 50%, will also bring some relief to member states’ budgets. since it was set up in 2007, the fund has helped nearly 76 000 redundant workers in 19 member states to find new jobs. it has provided co-financing amounting to eur 358 million for active labour market measures to cover such actions as job-search assistance, training and entrepreneurship promotion. over the last two years two-thirds of that amount was granted, or has been applied for, following redundancies that stemmed directly from the economic crisis. i can therefore say that the fund has been, and still is, a key component of the eu response to the employment impact of the crisis. i sincerely hope that the polish presidency will succeed in winning the council’s approval for our proposal to extend the crisis derogation to the end of 2013. evidence from the national authorities and the workers who have benefited shows that the member states have provided assistance of a better quality to a large number of workers and for a longer duration than they would have done without the fund’s help. lastly, let me briefly touch on the fund’s place in the future. it is a flexible fund that falls outside the financial framework. the amounts that are needed vary from year to year. that is why the commission is proposing in the multiannual financial framework a package to keep the globalisation adjustment fund outside the financial framework with a maximum of eur 3 billion over the next programming period. through the globalisation adjustment fund the eu will continue to assist the member states in providing tailor-made support for workers made redundant as a consequence of increasing globalisation. the commission is also proposing that its scope be extended to providing transitory support to farmers in order to facilitate their adaptation to a new market situation resulting from the indirect effect of globalisation. the commission is also contemplating support for start-ups and entrepreneurship promotion in the form of investments in capital. we are considering possibilities to use this tool up to a maximum of eur 35 000. today’s debate is timely as we are in the final phase of the preparation of our proposal. i look forward to the discussion and to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument whose merits need no longer be demonstrated. parliament has always played a crucial role in mobilising this instrument in favour of those in the european union who are victims of the phenomenon of globalisation. in this context, on a personal note, i would like to commend the absolutely outstanding role played by my colleague, barbara matera, in the individual mobilisations of the fund. we welcome the fact that it is being maintained and that it is being improved in its functioning and efficiency. ideally, it should be possible to mobilise it more quickly, but problems of rapid mobilisation are often, moreover, problems inherent in the member states rather than problems of the structure of community regulation. this also includes a stronger focus on the contribution of the fund to innovation and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the commissioner, above all, must prevent, as far as possible, the abuses that we see in some individual mobilizations in the future, where it really appears that some multinational structures are not victims of globalization. structures that benefit greatly from globalisation use these additional funds to be able to travel around the world, while benefiting from community support to be able to lay off employees. finally, commissioner, i fully share - as does my group - the view that the fund must remain a flexible instrument, outside the financial perspective and the formal community budget. flexibility is one of the main assets of this fund and it must be maintained.
mr president, that is the agenda for tuesday. the agenda includes an oral question on the maternity leave directive. i am very surprised that we have adopted our report on this subject at first reading. we are in the middle of the codecision procedure. during the codecision procedure, the council is not asked questions which go so far as to make concessions on the report we have adopted. i do not think that this oral question should be put on the agenda. otherwise we are showing the council that we have not understood the codecision procedure and the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, after this great round of committees that have delivered an opinion, it would seem that everything has been said, and it is almost true. this is all the more true since the commissioner has also said a lot of things that we like, although we will probably have to continue to debate some of them. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs rühle, for her availability and willingness to reach a broad agreement in this chamber. in view of the outcome of the vote in committee, this seems to have been a success. the overall objective of this report is to improve transparency and legal certainty in the vast field of public procurement, which obviously needs to be simplified. the commission has a very long way to go in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the views of the council and the council in the future. some specifics of the report. i find it disappointing that only 1.5% of public contracts in the european union are awarded cross-border. this disappointing figure needs to be improved, inter alia, by facilitating the preparation and conclusion of public contracts by electronic means. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we focus on the widespread preference for the notion of the most economically advantageous offer rather than the cheapest offer. i think that's an important step forward. this includes costs that would otherwise not be met. finally, another important aspect is the service concessions. i would like to address the commissioner and reiterate our firm determination to examine the proposal he will submit to us in the light of the added value and the proper functioning of the internal market. that is what we want with all our strength.
madam president, unfortunately the economic and financial crisis does not stop at the doors of our european industries, nor, at the moment, at those of the arcelormittal plant in schifflange, my home town, where my father and my three brothers worked from the first world war until after the second world war, and where i was mayor for 15 years. i therefore understand the economic and social situation we are facing, and which is particularly the case for the employees, my fellow citizens in my home town, where i still live. i know that some people are claiming that industry is taking advantage of the current difficult economic situation to relocate to areas which are considered more favourable and more conducive to their profits. i cannot, however, fail to express regret here, as some colleagues have already done, at the lack of power and self-propulsion of our so-called european industrial policy. i am particularly concerned about the fact that we are constantly imposing new regulations on our industries, whether through energy prices, excessive environmental protection requirements or very punitive taxation. all this undermines their competitiveness vis-à-vis competitors from third countries. the combination of the constraints i have mentioned and the absence of a genuine industrial policy creates an unfavourable climate and limited development prospects for the industries still based in the european union. it is the european commission, with its often aberrant proposals, and certain enlightened members of this parliament who are jointly responsible for decisions at the expense of the european heavy industry in the steel industry, which is closing the deficit seats. i therefore call for the revival of a proper industrial policy based on innovation, for greater coordination of sectoral policies and for greater realism in climate change and environmental policies. it is true that industries leaving europe no longer pollute here, but we will later import products from third countries which will be placed on our markets with production methods that are much more polluting than ours. that is our role here in the european parliament. the national social partners and national governments will be responsible for managing the social and economic situations on the ground. i trust them in my country.
madam president, the european union does not have a short-term programme, so in the face of massive redundancies in an enterprise, it cannot intervene effectively in the social treatment of mass unemployment. the disappointment of the victims is understandable. the following vicious circle must be broken: first the announcement of a lack of profitability, then the maintenance of overcapacity and then, when there is nothing more to be done, the people directly concerned are gradually accustomed to a temporary or permanent closure of their enterprise. this is what is happening in liège and also in luxembourg. it's a known issue. i've heard that one before. it's too reactive. what is needed is to open up the prospects in time, to explore alternative paths if employment can no longer be maintained in the same sector of activity. what is needed is a firm dialogue between partners, a proactive approach that opens up long-term prospects, provided, of course, that they are opened up to prospects in time. even if other industrial projects in other sectors are born of this social dialogue, it is still better than nothing. it's always better than the worst solution, unemployment. the workers who are threatened with precariousness in their professional situation need prospects rather than being fixed on a fatal fate in homeopathic doses. finally, if there is any merit to this debate, it is that it highlights a genuine industrial policy at european level. we should add that to achieve this, the european union will have to have real means, not merely symbolic means, particularly in the budgetary field.
i have to say, madam president, europe needs a modern steel industry, and this requires above all the demand for high-quality steel. that is why we in the green group believe that, in addition to austerity policies, we must also pursue an investment policy in europe. for the renovation of buildings, for more renewable energy, you also need steel. and if we're going to build eco-friendly cars, we also need lightweight, high-quality steel. we also need to invest in modernising steelworks in europe, away from 08/15 products towards high quality steel. this is particularly lacking in the arcelormittal group. the european works council of the mittal trade unions met yesterday. the trade unionists have found that arcelor-mittal in all countries depreciates more than it invests and that arcelor also benefits a lot from tax incentives. that is why i am calling on mr mittal to behave less like a hedge fund manager and more like an industrial captain. i would ask the commission to investigate, together with the governments concerned, where arcelormittal still pays taxes on its profits. find out if it's true that arcelormittal, at the shipyards in schifflange and rodange, which have been temporarily closed, is still awarded the full amount of co2 allowances and is adding to the one billion they already hoard in co2 allowances. and make sure that in future eu research funding is also tied to the companies that are still paying taxes somewhere.
mr president, i said yesterday when we discussed the agenda of this part-session that it is absolutely absurd to put this question to the polish presidency at this stage, here in the plenary, when we are in the middle of the codecision procedure after the adoption of our report on the reform of the maternity leave directive at first reading on 20 october 2010. it is true that neither the belgian, the hungarian or, so far, the polish presidencies have been able to adopt a formal position on the basis of the report adopted here a year ago. if that is the case, the polish presidency has no mandate to answer these strange questions, some of which are offers of compromise on texts adopted at first reading. it is not in this way, mr president, but in the framework of a trilogue, that the compromise can be proposed and discussed in order to reach an agreement with the council at second reading. the real question is: why has this trilogue not taken place until now? we all know this and the polish presidency has confirmed it! the report, which was unfortunately adopted by a majority which fell into the rapporteur's trap, has so overloaded the boat that dialogue has not even been able to begin. the rapporteur now wants to backtrack on certain points in an oral question to the council. we have to be very careful not to let the council and the commission get involved in this. if i had been the rapporteur, you can be sure that i would have already started the discussion with the council through the open door. the rapporteur's question is an illustration of a sign of intellectual poverty, 'armutszeugnis' as the germans say. i am very sad that this has not happened in this parliament, but i am even sadder because millions of european mothers and mothers-to-be have been waiting for over a year for better protection of their maternity, because of the fault of certain populist and overambitious members of this parliament. the people responsible for this situation, and the rapporteur in particular, should have finally realised that anything that is exaggerated is insignificant. the best solution would be for parliament to withdraw this unfortunate report, for someone else to be given the task of drafting a reasonable text...
madam president, having been doing this for so long, i am aware that the debate and discussion on the taxation of savings in europe too often takes a passionate turn and that the examination of the facts does not withstand the preconceived ideas. it has always been a good thing to strongly criticise the sourcing of information, which is working, and to praise the information exchange system, which is suffering from so many failures. i believe that the bilateral agreements between switzerland and germany or between switzerland and the united kingdom, far from setting a dangerous precedent for the savings tax directive, are a promising avenue to finally put an end to the disputes, and even the deaf dialogues, which have lasted too long. the new system which is in the making would apply a tax withholding tax on a much wider basis and at rates negotiated between the two parties, which would amount to taxing interest and capital income according to the taxation system of the state of origin. the result would be that the tax authorities of the home countries would receive much more money than they do now, and in these times of scarcity, the finance ministers should be the first to rejoice. his common sense arguments lead me to believe that what is possible with third countries must also be possible within the european union. mr commissioner, let us generalize this system in the name of efficiency, since the levy at source gives good results. let us generalize the system, ladies and gentlemen, since taxpayers would be taxed in full according to the taxation system of their country of origin. unlike my colleagues, i therefore advocate a dispassionate analysis of the facts. even if the bilateral agreements seem to me to be compatible with the savings tax directive, since none of its provisions are in question, i do recognise that the directive needs to be adapted. so let's do it on the right footing. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
yes, of course!
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, in its opinion on the 2012 budget, the european parliament's committee on development recalls its priorities. first, heading 4 of the european union budget, which is chronically underfunded. it is important to address this in order to make the millennium development goals a little less illusory. secondly, the arab spring is also a budgetary challenge. stripping peter to clothe paul is not the answer. we need to mobilize additional resources. the same applies to the financing of policies to mitigate the impact of climate change on developing countries. third, we need to be more selective in the allocation of our resources. let us direct our budgetary resources towards the fight against poverty in poor countries. rich and emerging countries are already generating enough resources to reduce poverty within their borders. fourthly, many of us believe that without innovative financing, and in particular the financial transaction tax, we risk not having the means to meet the objectives we have set ourselves in the european consensus on development.
madam president, commissioner, thank you very much. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all the speakers for their work on this dossier. the main purpose of the text is to strengthen the powers of national regulators to monitor the correct application of the rules by railway undertakings and to guarantee non-discriminatory access to infrastructure. but let us be realistic: this text will not solve all the problems in the sector. quality of customer service and safety must be the focus of attention. apart from a level playing field, we urgently need investment in infrastructure and equipment, an increase in the capacity of rolling stock, simplification of procedures, technical interoperability at european level and improved technical and social conditions. but unfortunately we are seeing the opposite trend in many countries today. services and connections are being cut, stations are being closed, jobs are being lost in the sector. we are certainly not going to achieve this by following ideological visions of total liberalization.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on online gambling in the internal market. the report stresses the need to leave it to the states to regulate this sector. already when the services directive was adopted, the european parliament and the council had excluded the gambling sector from the benefits of the internal market rules. gambling has no economic benefit and even has a dangerous social impact on compulsive gamblers. while it is difficult to restrict access to online gambling, governments should have full discretion to block access to unauthorised sites. the gambling industry is a fundamentally unhealthy economic sector and should be tackled as such.
mr president, the great challenge for 2012 is not just to respond to the sovereign debt crisis and to safeguard sufficient budgetary margins to prepare for the future, but simply to continue the construction of europe itself. it is true that the commission has too limited budgetary resources, with 1% of the european gross domestic product, to move the lines. but one might be tempted to paraphrase stalin on this: the commission, how many divisions? but that would be the wrong way to put it. the central question is: does the commission still have the authority and the coherence to influence the course of events? or will the answers to the big problems be found in a context as grotesque as that which marked the last meeting of heads of state and government in brussels? many of us in this chamber believe that president barroso's speech at the state of the union debate would have been a good one if it had been delivered with the same vigour as in 2008. the richness of the proposals alone will not overcome the threat of the decomposition of the european construction. it is now important to tackle the root causes of the crisis which is now becoming social and political. even if it is no longer original, as i have said many times, what is important above all is the method which must be applied to the great european project, a method which must give new impetus, on the one hand, and which must, if necessary, put the member states which are found to lack solidarity to the wall. i am not thinking only of those countries which have certainly contributed to the deterioration of their budgetary situation, but also and above all countries such as germany. not to mention it would be to keep part of the problem hidden.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs striffler rightly raises questions about the consistency of the commitments made by the european union in the field of official development assistance. let us say it at the outset: without the european union's contribution to development policy, the achievement of the millennium development goals would remain illusory. however, the european union shares this responsibility with other actors. the united states is a major donor in absolute terms, but with 0.2% of official development assistance to gdp, it is far behind the european union in relative terms. the emerging countries, too, generate very considerable resources, of which an increasing share will have to be allocated to development and the fight against poverty within their own borders. however, it is comforting to see that various european union countries - the list is not exhaustive - are exemplary in this respect. with only a few days to go until the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness in busan, i think it is appropriate to emphasise not only the volume of official development aid in the european union but also its leverage effect. as the largest donor, the eu is in a position to become more prominent on the world stage. without being seen as a lesson-giver, the european union can and should remind busan that the fight against poverty is an obligation for all states, as developing countries and more particularly emerging countries generate their own resources, they must also devote them to the eradication of poverty within their borders. this is their primary obligation and we cannot take over their responsibilities in this area.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all let me congratulate mr filip kaczmarek on his excellent report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2010. as the honourable members will know, attending jpa meetings has been a top priority for me since my appointment as commissioner for development, and it will remain so. i would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the eu co-chair, louis michel, for his tireless efforts to enhance the leading role that the jpa has to play in nurturing and developing a truly democratic dialogue between the representatives of the european union and acp member states. i am convinced that strengthening the political nature of the jpa and its oversight functions – as reflected in the second revision of the cotonou agreement signed in ouagadougou in 2010 – is of paramount importance. not only will it ensure that the agreement functions democratically, more importantly, it will also usher in a new and more effective interaction between the joint institutions, namely the joint council and the joint parliamentary assembly. with the entry into force of the second revision, the joint parliamentary assembly will be fully able to exercise its powers of democratic scrutiny by discussing and commenting on the acp-eu council of ministers’ annual report on implementation of the agreement. furthermore, with the economic partnership agreements and other trading arrangements, the european development fund and strategy papers included as subjects for discussion, the joint parliamentary assembly now enjoys greater parliamentary oversight functions. on this point, i would like to thank parliament for acknowledging that, in sending the draft country and regional strategy papers to the jpa, the commission had fulfilled its promises. the improvements brought about with the revision of the cotonou agreement do not end there. i believe that developing the national parliamentary dimension, an aspect emphasised in your report, will help promote the broader and more inclusive partnership we seek. it is certainly a move that the commission welcomes, in line with its policy to foster country ownership and democratic governance. the commission encourages and supports efforts by partner countries to build up parliamentary oversight capacities so that the use of public funds is subject to proper supervision. an assessment of european commission support to parliaments in the acp region during the past decade found that it amounted to just over eur 100 million, spread across some 30 countries, most of them in africa. while our initial efforts focused mainly on lawmaking, recent support has increasingly addressed parliaments’ oversight duties. building on that assessment, we have now completed the reference document entitled ‘engaging and supporting parliaments worldwide: ec strategies and methodologies for action to support parliaments’. together with our already healthy collaboration with parliament’s office for promotion of parliamentary democracy, this document will help the commission both achieve more with the parliamentary support it offers and contribute to fulfilling its policy commitments in this field. furthermore, the role of national parliaments is even more important in the countries where budget support is used. the commission audit publishes on our website the exact amount each country receives in budget support. i would like to remind members of this house that the commission is rated as one of the most transparent organisations in the world. furthermore, there is a wide range of reporting covering budget support issues, such as the annual report on external assistance, country fiches on budget support sent to member states and the european parliament, country evaluations and, in acp countries, the joint annual reports on the implementation of the country strategy papers. on 13 october 2011, the commission adopted a communication on the future approach of eu budget support to third countries. this revised budget support policy highlights the need to link budget support to the fundamental values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and to bolster the assessment of eligibility criteria. it also seeks greater transparency by ensuring that this becomes one of the eligibility criteria in the future. in this regard too, the commission is eager to take up the excellent suggestion contained in mr kaczmarek’s report and develop closer relations with the national parliaments when asked to do so, naturally while fully respecting the national sovereignty of each acp country. as for procedure, the commission recently presented a proposal to the council to conclude the agreement on this second revision of the cotonou agreement and to start the ratification process at eu level. we hope that parliament will give a favourable opinion to the council on this so that provisional application can begin at the earliest opportunity.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, there are two possible interpretations of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly: one positive and one negative. let's start with the negative reading because i always want to end on a high note. the responsibility of african and european parliamentarians remains very limited, above all in terms of financing the partnership. the european development fund does not fall within the budgetary prerogatives of the european parliament and as regards the allocation of funds from the european development fund to african countries, it is very likely that parliamentary control and the involvement of african parliaments in the budgetary affairs of their countries leave much to be desired. in view of the low level of involvement of many african parliaments in the budgetary affairs of their states, the acp-eu parliamentary assembly is more like a friendly group of people who can talk a lot but have nothing to say. as vice-president of this house, i must tell you that i am not always very proud to be a member of a bureau of an assembly composed of people who are given budgetary powers, especially in a homeopathic way. any balanced political system has powers and counter-powers. this aspect of things cannot last. we can't perpetuate this anomaly. the second reason for my negative reading is the weak - and the term is far too weak - involvement of the council in the debates of the assembly. last year, at our meeting in kinshasa, the council was absent. he was not represented at ministerial level; it's a disgrace to the european side. this is an absolutely grotesque situation if there is one. who are we kidding? the european union's presidency has been prevented from sending someone to represent the council's position on the eu-acp partnership. the council has the power to approve the broad lines of this policy. this too is unhealthy and cannot go on. i would like to end with a slightly more positive reading. i believe that this more positive interpretation is reflected in the political impetus which our assembly enjoys. it is true that this house has the power to make political decisions. the work is organised in such a way that information flows on the main lines of eu-acp cooperation. that is very good, but in order for political impulses to have any effect in the long term, those who can animate this work by their debates must have a certain amount of power. a guard dog that has no teeth will eventually no longer be perceived as a guard dog. you have to be aware of that. another reason why i read it a little more positively is that the house is an interesting forum for discussion, and i believe that our colleague mr cashman has just said that. even the most sensitive issues can be discussed. it's the corporate debate that bothers me. all matters relating to minority rights can be disturbing, but the acp-eu parliamentary assembly knows no taboos and here again i would like to pay tribute to louis michel, co-chairman of our assembly, who has taken care not to suppress a single aspect of these matters. finally, i should also like to congratulate our colleague mr kaczmarek, who found more positive points in his report than i did. that's to say he did some important research. i want to encourage him to continue on this path. this could have an even more positive influence on future interventions i may be called upon to make in this context. so let us conclude by saying that things are far from perfect. so they are perfectible. i hope that other institutional actors outside the european parliament are also aware of what i have just said and that we all need to be involved in order to improve things.
in writing. the resolution for the next climate conference in durban has not found my support. it is a compilation of wishful thinking, of petitions for unrealistic principles, in short, a text lost in insignificant details and ignorance of reality. the eu's co2 emissions are on track to account for 10% of global emissions, because emissions from the rest of the world are increasing even faster. copenhagen and cancun have proved that. there will never be a "legally binding" agreement. instead of recognizing this and focusing on what is feasible, including the transfer of energy-efficient technologies, europe is stubbornly clinging to a kyoto agreement that even the japanese have abandoned. instead of wanting to set an 'example' for the rest of the world, the european union should be concerned with its competitiveness in environmental technologies. china has become the world leader in wind turbines and photovoltaics. europe is the world champion in wishful thinking!
in writing. i was unable to vote for the report on an integrated approach to gender equality in the work of the european parliament. i am of course in favour of equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women and have been fighting for this since i was young and since 1965 as a member of parliament or a member of the european parliament. but unfortunately, as always, the report has been abused by extremists in the committee on women's rights to include claims that have nothing to do with the subject and that concern transgender people, whom no one wants to discriminate against. parliament does not have the means and human resources to assess how policies and activities affect transgender people. at most, we could ask the european commission to do this. but the commission is asked to take account of 'gender identity' - a concept which is not mentioned in the treaties or in the case law of the european court of justice - in all its activities and not just in the field of equality between women and men. i do not vote for such reports, because no one is obliged to do the impossible.
president of the delegation to the conciliation committee - mr president, after long and laborious negotiations, the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee approved by a large majority on 25 october the agreement reached with the council. i should like to begin by thanking all the members of parliament's delegation, and especially those of the negotiating team, and the council for their open attitude and the commission for its constant support. i must say, as chairman of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, that the result is satisfactory to parliament as a whole. we had an interesting political and intellectual challenge, which was to adapt the current financial instruments to the requirements of the new treaty, and this has been achieved, mr president, by placing the essential aspects of these instruments - priorities, objectives, expected results and allocation of resources in general terms - under co-decision, which puts parliament and the council on an equal footing. on the other hand, another important achievement i would like to highlight is that, thanks to our discussions in this conciliation, the commission has extraordinarily strengthened its statement on the use of delegated acts in future financial instruments explicitly. another point i would like to stress is the council's political declaration on the use of delegated acts in future external financing instruments, which the council undertakes to consider appropriately. this was a red line for the council, which was initially reluctant to make this declaration, but was finally convinced by the strength of our arguments. the instruments themselves are as follows: in the case of the instrument for industrialized countries, we have succeeded in having the resource thresholds by priority and geographical area included in an annex, and in the case of the instrument for banana exporting countries, we have precisely defined the criteria for allocating resources and the methodology to be applied, eliminating any arbitrariness or any room for manoeuvre by the commission which is not subject to parliament's control. i must admit, mr president, that there was one particular point in this instrument on which parliament was unable to make its theses prevail. but, mr president, a compromise is a compromise, not a 100% win. and so, just as we imposed our red lines, the council was entitled to have some red lines too. i would add, mr president, that if parliament does not adopt the instrument for banana-exporting countries tomorrow, the consequences of this decision would be very serious. the programmes would be cancelled because, contrary to what some of the honourable members say - and i understand that they do so in good faith - there is no money, no resources in other parts to deal with these programmes. so very vulnerable social sectors in these countries would be seriously harmed by our decision and the political consequences would also be very damaging, not to mention the agreements we are getting at the world trade organisation on bananas, which would also be seriously disrupted. mr president, the council has already approved this agreement. under our gentleman's agreement with the council, we are expected to be consistent tomorrow and ratify the agreement as well. i therefore recommend, as chairman of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, mr president, that this house should support this conciliation agreement tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the regulation on accompanying measures in the banana sector has two parts: a development cooperation part and an institutional part which relates to the european parliament's co-decision power. there's no problem with the first part. it is on the institutional aspects, however, that our views differ. how can the mab (accompaniment measures in the banana sector) regulation be made compatible with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, and in particular article 290 thereof? to be clear, under the lisbon treaty, the european parliament now has equal power with the council to approve strategic priorities in the programming of european funds, including those for development cooperation. as rapporteur, in accordance with the mandate given by the conference of presidents of our parliament, and in accordance with the decisions taken both in the committee on development and in the european parliament's delegation for conciliation, i have, throughout the eight trilogues with the council and the commission, respected the following two red lines. firstly, there is no question of giving up equal treatment between parliament and the council in setting priorities for financial programming. secondly, in the same spirit, there is no question of renouncing the prerogatives of democratic voting of the european parliament within the framework of this instrument and creating a bad precedent for the future. after eight trilogues and in the face of the council's rigidity, which is not even present today, the results of the elections give rise to two different reactions. the delegation voted by a majority in favour of the draft compromise as it is before you. a large minority, however, did not support the compromise negotiated in the conciliation. as rapporteur and as a democrat who respects the majority, i feel obliged to convey to you the results of our deliberations, which has been done. my own interpretation of parliamentary ethics would forbid me to ignore this evidence. the same ethics, however, allow me to say that i personally find the results very unsatisfactory. why would you do that? i find the results unsatisfactory because if parliament adopts the compromise, it risks setting a bad precedent. the european parliament is granted only a right to information on the strategic choices the commission will make in the allocation of the €190 million under the mab project. the european parliament is informed and the council alone decides on a commission proposal. this is not a step forward. this is a two-step process: a first step backwards from the lisbon treaty, a second step backwards from the situation before 1 december 2009, the date on which the lisbon treaty entered into force. until 2009, the european parliament had the possibility, under a negative procedure, to confront the commission with parliament's views. this procedure had a suspensive effect. today, nothing like that. the council has succeeded in depriving the european parliament, which is a co-legislator with it, of its right to a democratic vote by accepting only a solution where it alone can adopt the strategic choices in the context of the accompanying measures in the banana sector. the council has succeeded in inserting the implementation of the mab programme into a logic conditioned by article 291, which deals with simple implementing measures. we're taking two steps back here. actually, we're going backwards. that is why i cannot vote for this report. in doing so, i admit that this is an extremely difficult decision for me, but i am prepared to take it on myself, because i would not like to help create an unfortunate precedent for the forthcoming negotiations on the powers of the european parliament to finance foreign policy instruments.
member of the commission. − mr president, this debate has been interesting and has paved the way for a better understanding and, i hope, also more cooperative interaction in the future. in this regard, i have heard the concerns of parliament. i am confident that they will be met in the next multiannual financial framework when the commission presents its proposals for the new instruments in the coming weeks. i agree with many of you who said that even now we need protection to be provided to those defending human rights. the commission agrees that it is a problem when regimes use tax laws to further oppress human rights ngos. the changes agreed allow us to accept taxes as eligible costs so that the attention of the authorities is not drawn to ngos or to commission funding. honourable members, i would like to remind you that the commission is sensitive to the european parliament’s requests and has already made the formal commitment to fully comply with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. in its communication ‘a budget for europe 2020’, the commission made that commitment to the extensive use of delegated acts. ms lochbihler has referred to that part of the text, so i will not quote it again. let me just restate that the compromise before you represents today a fair balance between parliament and the council. each side can see things it likes, and things which it does not like. however, i would insist on having a more forward-looking vision going beyond the limited field of interinstitutional relations. as i stated in the debate, failure of this package is not an option. there is no plan b. if parliament does not adopt this legislation tomorrow, the commission will have no basis to implement the budget for ici plus and the banana accompanying measures. for the ici plus, we will be unable to promote our interests and value abroad. for the banana accompanying measures, the commission wants to state clearly that funds are not available from any other source, such as the european development fund. if it fails to adopt the banana accompanying measures, the european union will be seen as an unreliable trade partner and, what is even more dramatic, unreliable for our poorest acp partners. this is not what our citizens are expecting from the european union. nevertheless, i would like to stress the fact that this compromise is a good result for the european union as a single player in its external dimension, both for the european union’s cooperation with its strategic partners and for its cooperation with the acp banana-producing countries.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have just heard commissioner füle speak of - and i quote him - 'good cooperation here in this part-session'. we want to cooperate with those who are present, but it is difficult to cooperate with those who are absent: there is no one in front. i have not heard a single argument tonight or in the eight trilogues we have had with the council. if the council had been here tonight, we could have discussed what divides us; we could also have talked about what unites us. i have often had the opportunity to do so in the committee on development of the european parliament. we could have talked, for example, about a common vision of development cooperation for the european union, the commission and the member states as a whole, which is what the lisbon treaty calls for. this should be translated into a sharing of responsibilities. i'm talking about responsibility here. what, though, about today? member states spend about 80% of their own resources on development cooperation. it is only natural that the member states should have the last word in this respect as regards their national budgets. parliament has no say in this. the member states also entrust the commission with a large amount of money, which it implements under the mandate given by the member states: the european development fund. until we have got the edf budgeted, the european parliament will remain on the sidelines. the european parliament has no say in this either, and it has almost 90%. then, for a tiny part, which is entrusted to the commission, parliament can invoke article 290, which puts it on an equal footing with the council, and here again the council wants to keep us out of the way, which is unacceptable. does the european parliament also have a role to play in the development of a genuine development cooperation policy? yes or no? i still think the council has not got the message. once again, the council is demanding that parliament should remain aloof, and this is - as we remember - the mandate which the council had given to the hungarian presidency. on the one hand, we are called upon to coordinate policy, on the other hand, we are deprived of the means to enforce our position. we are not even given the means to have any respect for our institutional partners. parliament has not been silent. we have supported the commission against all odds when it came to integrating development efforts into the external action service. i call upon all of you on this bench to register as witnesses and challenge you to plead guilty to the charges i have just brought. we have spared no effort to allow you to exist alongside the new high representative for foreign affairs. i believe, mr president, that the efforts of this parliament, and particularly of the committee on development, should have been much more clearly reflected by the institutions, and particularly by the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is very kind of you to thank me, but i actually voted against my own report because it is now only a shadow of what was voted on and adopted at second reading. (applause) i will also ask that my name be removed from the report.
in writing. i refuse to endorse the outcome of the trilogue on the 2012 community budget. the european parliament is satisfied with a few vague promises of additional commitments, when after months of battling over hundreds of amendments which are ultimately useless, it simply accepts the council's dictate on the level of authorized payments. the council's initial position was exactly the same, namely eur 129.088 billion. it is clear that the european union is not giving itself the means to achieve its ambition, especially at a time when the economic recession will put all the states under additional pressure.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on croatia's accession. croatia is certainly a state with a vocation to become a member of the european union. but this new enlargement comes at the wrong time. the union's budget is a misery. the financial outlook will lead to further austerity. and above all, the union has still not established the rules for better functioning and faster decision-making. the european cacophony will be enlarged by the increase from 27 to 28 member states.
mr president, one can be disappointed by mr cameron's attitude at the last european council, and i am. this should not, however, hide the fact that many british citizens disagree with their prime minister. i am thinking in particular of our liberal and labour colleagues. i must say that, in its general content, this morning's debate did not help to build solidarity with the pro-european political currents in the united kingdom. that's not very wise. but that's not my only concern. the way in which the governments of two member states of the european union try to impose their will on the others may not be the best way of cementing cohesion within the european union in the long term and thereby respecting the authority of the president of the european council. it is becoming increasingly clear that there are only two member states in the european union. would things be frozen in place forever? that is why i would like to ask mr van rompuy whether he intends, here and now, to rule out any initiative which could bring the united kingdom back into the european family by 30 march 2012.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of public transport services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has succeeded in drawing up a good, coherent and comprehensible result from several hundred amendments, which places the main emphasis on safety, environmental protection, energy and technology for the future. i am particularly pleased that such important issues as the social, health and working conditions of employees are also adequately mentioned here. this is particularly important in view of the threat of a shortage of skilled workers in the transport sector, which must be actively addressed if shortages of well-trained skilled workers are to be avoided in the future. further opening of cabotage in road transport only if social dumping and unfair conditions are prevented. i also welcome the fact that the aspect of improving road safety is given an important place here. the safety of our roads is an issue that must continue to concern us in the future. i am rather critical of other points. i would have liked to have heard a statement on the modal shift, to shift more traffic from road to rail and to waterways. that's why i don't think the gigalin debate is the best solution for sustainability. the further liberalisation of the railway sector is also critical, and the opening up of national passenger transport should be awaited and reconsidered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. but, as i said, i hope that this report, which expresses the expectations of parliament, will not remain a pious wish list but that by 2020 a goal will be reached and our proposals will have become a reality.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. mr. lewandowski, i'm not worried, i'm mad! i'm not worried about you. i am not blaming you personally, but the people in the research and energy dg who are about to cancel one of the most useful programmes we have ever had in the european budget, the intelligent energy for europe programme, without replacement. studies on offshore wind in the north sea, training workshops for government officials on how to implement the eu building directive, training events for architects and engineers on how we are building near-zero-energy houses, networks between progressive mayors in europe - i could go on and on. why should all this be destroyed now? why would you do that? if mrs geoghegan-quinn and mr oettinger do not come up with a concrete project, then we as parliamentarians will be forced to bring the old cip programme, the competition and innovation programme, back from the dead and to return horizon 2020 to what it should be: a separate research programme and a well-organised innovation programme. the colleagues here know how much we care about this programme. we expect a concrete answer from both mrs geoghegan-quinn and mr oettinger, in writing and quite soon. the abolition of the intelligent energy for europe programme is poison at a time when we need to win citizens in europe for europe. we are turning a blind eye to those in europe who are motivated by european policy. this can't be happening!
