in writing. european agriculture is one of the union's most strategic sectors, providing food for more than 500 million people. in order to achieve its main objective of providing european citizens with healthy, high-quality food at reasonable prices, while maintaining a decent income for farmers, the european agricultural policy must be competitive on the global market and ensure fair competition in the european internal market. our task, therefore, in the cap reform is to ensure a level playing field for all european farmers. eu countries have not faced food security challenges, but such risks exist in the future and we need to be able to respond appropriately before they happen. it should be borne in mind that farmers are already working with minimal income or even losses, which adversely affect their ability to maintain production. natural disasters also affect the price of food in stores and, by extension, the availability of food. we must recognise the strategic importance of agriculture in the european union and do everything we can to ensure that europeans do not experience food shortages in the future because eu politicians and governments have not seen the risks and addressed them in time. recognising agriculture as a strategic sector in food security is an important step towards avoiding food security problems in the future.
the president, mr barroso! the commission has come up with what i consider to be a very welcome initiative to develop energy infrastructure across the european union at both the electricity and gas interconnections. your report estimates the cost at some 200 billion euros. these networks will be completed by 2020. the report also says that about half, or 100 billion, will come from the private sector. my question to you is this: the remaining 100 billion euros that will be needed to upgrade the energy grid by the year 20 from where will these funds come? will it be community funds, will it be project-oriented securities or is there another source of funding? thank you!
in writing. − the directive on the right of eu citizens to receive treatment in any of the 27 member states is an important step towards better healthcare in the european union. this is particularly relevant since there is a large movement of labour within the eu. once the directive enters into force, patients will be offered extensive information on the new rules so that citizens are aware of their options and can make full use of them. first aid can be provided to citizens in any member state and doctors may not refuse to provide it. the directive provides that citizens will be able to choose from which member state they wish to receive the planned medical services. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. it should be recalled that citizens have the right to receive medical services in one of the member states if such services are not available at the place of residence. this is particularly important in cases of complex or rare health problems. that is why my group and i support this directive, because it is a concrete step by parliament which will have a positive impact on the lives of the people of europe.
thank you, chairman. i would like to support mrs ashton's report on the attitude of the european union towards the events in belarus. we very often use purely emotional judgments and base them on emotions. we're talking about political prisoners who need to be released. but the truth hasn't been told yet. we don't know what's going to happen yet, what decision has been made. i therefore ask all my colleagues again and again to take a very sensitive view of this kind of event. two years ago, the same thing happened in latvia. while the party was going on, no one was allowed to party. but when a mob, apparently led by a provocateur, arrived and began to storm the parliament, the police intervened. it was the same in belarus. i would very much like to know (i'll finish in a moment) where the money that feeds the opposition in belarus comes from. that's how we help them. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. we are all ugly. if we can afford not to do something, most people won't. entrepreneurship is no exception in this respect. most entrepreneurs, i'm sure, dream of the possibility that they could be the monopolists, where they dictate the rules, rather than the consumers dictating the rules to them. competition is what ensures that consumers not only get low prices but also the best quality. unfortunately, we still have a number of areas in the european union where competition is not really there. the first of these is energy. there are still isolated markets in several parts of europe where, for legal technical reasons, there is no competition at all. what's the result? artificially high prices for consumers. a concrete example is the baltic states and the gas market. as commissioner ottinger himself has acknowledged, german consumers are now paying 30% less for natural gas than consumers in the baltic states. why is there competition on one side but not in the baltic states? this needs to be changed. there is another area where we really don't have competition, and that is the agricultural sector. not to mention what subsidies as such do to the agricultural market, within europe we have very unequal agricultural payments or subsidies in one member state versus another. what does that mean? that european consumers are paying artificially high prices in many places and, of course, farmers are also suffering. i would like to ask you, colleagues, to support this report, which sets out the commission's 'action against competition' for 2009. but i would remind you that this work does not stop there, and we must continue to expand the areas where competition is also to be found. thank you for your attention.
thank you, chairman. i have no doubt that the issue we are discussing today is very important, and i think this century will be the century of the struggle between nations, between governments, to get the benefits of the arctic. and in that regard, i support the fact that we are discussing such issues today. what is the basis for my conclusion? we see that china is already building an icebreaker today. we see that a number of countries that do not border the north sea want to become members of the arctic council, and i am pleased that the european union is and will become such a member. but two aspects. first, i think i would recommend to the commission that on the eve of the summit it pay more attention to the fact that this region is not militarized, because already now...
in writing. − the european union must take an active stance on the developments in belarus. we must condemn the violent repression of the opposition and the falsification of the results of the presidential elections. freedom is one of the european union's fundamental values and we can only develop cooperation successfully with countries that respect these values. the release of political prisoners is therefore one of the preconditions for the european union to resume dialogue with belarus. with this statement, the european parliament must send a clear signal to the belarusian leadership that we want cooperation but will never be prepared to ignore restrictions on political freedoms or electoral fraud in the name of economic interests. especially since more than 20 years ago a significant number of meps were themselves fighting for freedom. sanctions must be imposed on the belarusian regime, but they must not affect the belarusian people, for whom we must open the door to europe. european universities must accept young belarusians who have been expelled from universities for political activities and who will never be able to get an education in lukashenko-led belarus again. we need to strengthen cooperation with civil society representatives in belarus, supporting their struggle and sharing our experience with them. i am convinced that the people of belarus deserve a democratic state where human rights are respected, where there are fair elections and where there is freedom of speech. if the belarusian leadership wants to cooperate with us, they'll have to abide by these rules.
in writing. - the situation in the eu's immediate neighbour belarus, where the expression of democracy is brutally suppressed both in political and in non-governmental organisations, is unacceptable. i supported this resolution because i believe that the opposition to the authoritarian regime in belarus needs the support of western societies. this is an opportunity for the union to shape a common foreign policy and to defend the values it stands for every day. the european union must at the same time impose sanctions on the authoritarian government of belarus and provide both moral and financial support to the democratic movement in belarus.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in this room, we have different views on what is most important for the development of energy in europe. some think it's renewable energy, some think it's nuclear, some think energy conservation is the most important. but one thing i think we can all agree on is that we need a unified energy network in europe so that we can no longer have some member states completely isolated from others in the electricity market or the gas sector. in this context, the council meeting this friday is discussing how to create a single energy grid in europe, and i think the most important question there is where the funding will come from. financing must also be found for projects that do not have a direct commercial viability in the short term overall financing to eliminate the energy sector. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. why do you think the european parliament adopts resolutions? it is precisely to fulfill them. but it seems that the latvian government did not comply with the resolution of 11 march 2004. the resolution makes clear that it is necessary to grant the right to vote in municipal elections to latvian citizens who are permanently resident in its territory. the question of when latvia will implement this resolution will probably be answered as follows: 'when the dragon's wings will bloom' (in latvian), 'kogda rak na gore svistnet' in russian and 'when pigs fly' in english. it seems that either the pigs will start flying or we all have to eliminate the discrimination of 335 thousand latvian citizens. thank you.
thank you, chairman. i am among those who are in favour of the adoption of this document. i also support the approach of setting the target of shared collection in stages. today we collect only 25% of the electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market in latvia. it's too small. i also support the ambitious objectives set out in the regulation, but at the same time i am concerned that we will have great differences between member states, and i therefore call on the commission and all those involved, including the member states, to pay the utmost attention to this monitoring of the implementation of the documents. we would like latvia to have a slightly lower chance of achieving the targets: 45% by 2016 and 65% by 2020.
in writing. − all this mess surrounding the immunity of tamás deutsch mep is just a method of political struggle. i am categorically against such methods which are used to settle accounts with political opponents. in the given case i voted against the waiver of the immunity of thomas deutsch. i think that a waiver of immunity should be applied only to an mep who has committed a homicide. we (i.e. all members of european parliament) should understand that when a political race goes beyond all limits of logics, we become accomplices of lawlessness.
in writing. - i voted against. today, funding projects in the field of human rights has become the business of some high-ranking eu officials. the sakharov prize is a good example. i don't think this award has been given to the best candidates in the last two years. the european parliament's human rights work has shown clear signs of political commitment. the nomination of financial prizes is often done by people who have no right to call themselves human rights defenders. clear and strict rules are needed, otherwise eu funds could be misused.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that additional bonuses and incentives should be provided to stimulate the development of industry, science, transport and energy. building on the best examples of history (the marshall plan), we must try to accelerate the growth of industrial and consumer demand by stimulating new technologies and scientific innovation and by funding 'technology pioneers'.
in writing. - following the way meps voted on the reduction of import tariffs for bananas from latin america, it became clear that many of my colleagues do not understand the importance of this issue for the european union. every year we approve a budget that includes funds for aid, including to latin american countries. if we reduce the import tariffs for bananas from latin america today, this production will become more competitive, which means that the quantity of bananas grown will increase, additional jobs will be created, which will allow the amount of financial aid to be reduced for the countries of latin america. this means that the european union will make substantial savings in the funds allocated to relations with developing countries. but that's the next question. i supported this initiative without smiling.
in writing. − the s&d group and i voted in favour, because it is obvious that the amount of waste from electronic and electrical equipment is constantly increasing. in order not to squander eu funds it is necessary to offer countries which supply electrical and electronic devices to the eu either to pay a special fee for utilisation at the moment of selling a device or take on an obligation to accept back old devices meant to be re-used/recycled. this can significantly harmonise the process of reuse/recycling and delivery of devices, and will allow not a return to this question in future.
in writing. − as a rule, once the constitution is changed and a new form of governance has been created, the country needs democratic and fair elections. we can start the discussion about the financial or other type of support only after tunis has performed all the recommendations of the osce, the european parliament, the european union and the european council. unfortunately, history teaches us that the countries that aspire to democracy become centres of corruption and abuses. this process is linked to the high crime rate and violations of law and social rules. i voted in favour taking into consideration the fact that financial support to tunis should take place only after free elections and under the strict control of the institutions responsible for financial support.
in writing. − the tuberculosis vaccine programme is very important, but what is the european parliament going to do before 2015? in latvia, for example, the process of medical treatment for tuberculosis currently consists of diagnosis-making and staying in quarantine. in fact, all the funds that were supposed to be spent on the purchase of medical equipment and the construction of specialised hospitals were spent in vain. for instance, in a town called olaine there was a hospital constructed on the territory of a prison to treat people infected by tuberculosis. the amount of money spent to equip the hospital amounted to two million euro. that hospital is not functioning now since there is no medical staff! therefore i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that it is not enough merely to create and produce a vaccine, it is necessary to prepare specialists with focused specialisation and highly qualified medical personnel and to deploy them in a battle against tuberculosis. otherwise, the effect of today’s voting will be no more than emotional. it is highly important to have absolutely transparent scrutiny of funds allocated to the fight against tuberculosis in order not to repeat the latvian situation.
in writing. − inefficient use by the police college of funds allocated to it has already led to disruption in financial support for small agencies. there are cases of inappropriate use of funds which border on financial crimes. all these transgressions may happen when there is not enough scrutiny from the commission. parliament’s decision on this issue gives a clear signal to all other agencies and institutions that it is necessary to stick to financial discipline and to be more responsible in respect of the duties they have. nor would it be wasteful to relieve of their posts those commission officials who stood by for a long time and failed to act resolutely and efficiently. i know of many cases in which commission officials – either because of their unconstructive position or sometimes even laziness – closed their eyes to serious violations in european union financial projects. i consider this resolution to be very timely and useful.
in writing. - i voted against, and only because i did not know the name of the candidate for such a high office. i particularly liked that the representative of the european commission did not want to reveal the name of the applicant! perhaps something has changed in our world if meps are not entitled to know the name and biography of the person who wants to become an official of the european union.
in writing. − i abstained on the resolution. i would like to add that this is not a political but a technical issue. it is strange that members of european parliament have to make an appeal for solving purely household issues. if the trend continues in the same way, then it is possible that the eu will call on the public to stop swearing, smoking, drinking, sunbathing, eating unhealthy food and sleeping for a long time. the fire brigade will be asked to extinguish fires faster; medical personnel will be asked to treat people more attentively; policemen will be asked to arrest criminals more effectively and teachers to teach children better. if we carry on making such calls, the citizens of the eu will wonder why they need the european parliament – to ask citizens to do things? or there are real problems to be solved?
for the ecr group mr president, i would also like to join in this thanksgiving to all the parties involved who have found this compromise, but i would particularly like to thank mr cancian, who, i think, has found the very right compromise options on behalf of parliament. we have introduced passenger rights in all modes of transport with passenger rights in buses. it is clear that these rights are very different in the different modes of transport in terms of the levels of compensation depending on the length of the delay or the type of transport for which the route is cancelled. but while our passengers in the european union may be getting a little behind in the first year, it is a step forward in ensuring these passenger rights, and the fact that these passenger rights have been introduced as the very last in buses shows that this was probably the most difficult step. i am particularly pleased about the fundamental rights of disabled people and people with special needs and that they have these rights also for transport by bus if it is less than 250 km, with the one exception that brian simpson has already mentioned, namely that companies providing these services can postpone training. i hope he doesn't do it on purpose. the same as member states twice four years will not delay the implementation of this directive until the maximum deferral period. thank you.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on this issue because: (1) the republic of south africa possesses tremendous natural resources and is capable enough to resolve its own questions itself; (2) the level of corruption in south africa is so high that the shadow economy accounts for more than 60% of its market; (3) there are countries which cannot solve problems themselves and are more significantly in need of eu financial support, and whose situation is more hopeless; (4) the eu may assist the republic of south africa in an advisory way.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i consider it essential to help brazilian people to settle the huge territories. technological and financial aid will ensure food competitiveness and low prices. brazil can turn from an agricultural producer into a great consumer of european goods, open a new sales market and widen its tourist services if support is given in the right areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour, but i would like to add that bus and coach companies should also have to comply with a requirement to create security and emergency aid systems for international and long-distance routes, because people can be injured during accidents. it is also necessary to introduce additional regulation relating to the responsibility of bus companies for the life and health of passengers, including obligatory medical checks on the state of health and wellbeing of bus and coach drivers, who are responsible for the health and safety of passengers.
in writing. − i supported the draft resolution on the proposal for a council decision authorising closer cooperation to establish a unitary patent protection, as i believe that a unitary patent registration system will reduce administrative barriers for european companies. the european union cannot afford a fragmented system of patent registration. today, it has taken a big step forward towards achieving a uniform registration procedure. the current situation, where a company has to register its patent in each member state separately, significantly hinders the development of companies. the slow and complex process by which patents have been registered in the european union has limited the opportunities for our companies to develop dynamically. a clear and efficient procedure for anyone to register a patent valid throughout the european union will ensure that new products reach customers faster, thereby increasing the pace of business development. the beneficiaries will be the countries that participate in this patent registration system and the companies in these countries that will be able to quickly deliver new products to all european consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the economic crisis and the ageing of society have led to a reduction in the public social security contributions to the special budget. it's all over the map. the number of pensioners is increasing. this threatens the sustainability of the pension system. social security and pension systems need to be adapted to the challenges of today. i agree with the commissioner that it was a very difficult document to produce. and yet i believe that a social fund, similar to the cohesion fund, should be set up at european union level to help pensioners in countries with comparatively low incomes. the state budget cannot provide a dignified retirement. we have experience. we fought poverty last year, and as a result, there are more poor people in europe than before.
in writing. – straight away after the entry of latvia to the eu, the latvian government decided that for the allocation of resources from eu funds it was enough to declare latvia to be one region. (poland is divided into 16 regions). as a result, one of the 4 regions of latvia – latgale – remains one of the most unprotected. application of funds in latgale is many times less efficient than in latvia as a whole. this situation is reflected on the labour market of latgale. while the unemployment rate in the capital city of latvia (riga) is 8-9%, in latgale it is 20-25%. european employment programs are inaccessible to the population of such towns as livani, preili, kraslava, ludza, aglona and dagda. instead of solving the issue of organisation and stimulation of production in latgale, the latvian government is continuously increasing taxes, which leads to widespread bankruptcy of small and medium-sized companies. to avoid social tension the inhabitants of latgale are given lvl 100 per month as a sop. the common policy of the latvian government has resulted in the emigration of more than 150 000 workers. i appeal to the european commission for urgent intervention in the situation. it is necessary to work out an employment framework for outlying regions of the eu such as latgale.
in writing. − i completely support the report of marisa matias. however, i consider the measures featured in the report to be insufficient. it is necessary to work out and make obligatory for all eu member states a package of measures covering responsibility for distribution, assistance, production and realisation of counterfeit medicines. measures should include forfeiture of licence from suppliers and distributors of counterfeit medicine, maximum fines and criminal responsibility for all people related to illegal activity in the area of medicine trading. the responsibility of the guilty should be no less than if they were drug dealers. only in that way we can stop the distribution of counterfeit products and eradicate the black market in medicines.
in writing. − this is the most useful resolution for the whole period from 2009 to 2011. i very much hope that the authors of the resolution will move forward and consider questions regarding the alleviation of the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, will make available credit financing at reduced rates and improve communication between eu funding structures and smes, and finally monitor the situation in outlying regions of the eu, e.g. latgale (latvia). the government is conducting the well-planned and calculated liquidation of smes in latgale by closing access to information about stabilisation funds, and by increasing taxes and the number of controlling and repressively fiscal bodies. all this leads to the elimination of the tax base, and as a result latvia is on the edge of bankruptcy today.
in writing. − i supported the report on the development of an adequate, sustainable and secure european pension system because i believe that changes are needed in the existing pension model to ensure its sustainability. at present, european countries risk not having pensions for future generations that will ensure a dignified retirement. we must recognize that we are living at the expense of future generations. we borrow money to pay for today's pensions. that has to change. the pension system must be balanced so that current revenues cover current expenditure. any other solution would mean living beyond your means. there are many ways to do this, but it must also be recognised that we can no longer expect to retire shortly after the age of 60. the retirement age should be gradually raised throughout europe and maintained at the age of 70. this is one way of ensuring that the social budget does not become a burden on the economies of european countries.
in writing. − i hope that parliament will not confine itself simply to producing reports and votes. it is necessary to analyse all 27 pension systems in the eu. i am confident that violations of the rules on a massive scale will be revealed in this sphere in latvia, where the government constantly tries to solve the budget deficit problem at the expense of pensions. as a result, pensioners in latvia have become hostages to the current government’s risk-taking activities. in the majority of cases, pensions in latvia are below the official minimum subsistence level. the situation is complicated by the government’s decision to retain payments to the second pension tier. this can have very sad consequences. i voted in favour in the hope of an independent assessment of the situation in latvia.
in writing. the recent months have seen a surge in food prices, which has led to a sharp increase in the number of people living on the brink of starvation. the situation in europe is not so critical, because our citizens' incomes are vastly higher than those of people in developing countries, but our voters are also starting to feel the effects of rising food prices. according to the world bank, since june last year, some 44 million people in developing countries have been pushed into poverty as food prices rose to 2008 levels in early 2011, when rising food and oil prices significantly increased poverty worldwide. of course, food prices do affect the price of oil around the world, but it's worth remembering that in the summer of 2008, a barrel of oil cost $140 while today it's about $100, which means that some of the price increases have been caused by speculation. to avoid such situations in the future, g20 countries need to establish a mechanism to prevent such price increases and food speculation in the future. this requires concerted cooperation at international level. the problem of food price volatility is further proof that we need a strong common agricultural policy that is fair and creates a level playing field for all european farmers so that our citizens can receive high quality food at affordable prices.
in writing. − i have read the contract carefully and find that many of its points are incomplete and superficial. in this connection, there are sections which could be interpreted in two ways. for example, public procurement rules allow the most important issues of competition and abuse to be bypassed. the process of cooperation with the far east certainly needs to be extended, but the superficial and imprecise wording of the document leaves room for doubt that this work has been completed. i voted against.
in writing. − before expressing solidarity with the egyptian people, it is necessary to understand what has driven this process. according to the information i have, radical islamists are behind the destabilization. i am determined to prevent chaos in the arab world. i'm against any funding of extremism and disorder. the ep rushed to announce the protesters many of whom openly carried anti-semitic slogans financial support. the hard-hearted and emotional attack by meps on the arab world could be seen as an invitation to riot. enough with the war in iraq and the two-state solution in pakistan. we must be clear-sighted and pragmatic about muslim countries. i voted against.
in writing. − with this resolution, meps wish to draw attention to the disturbing developments in russia, which, as a member of the council of europe, has committed itself to fully respecting european standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. in fact, these standards are ignored and grossly violated. the trial of former yukos company owners mikhail khodorkovskaya and platon lebedev is a clear example of this, which resembles a farce and does not give the impression that there is one law and one justice for all in russia. while attempts are being made to bring to justice opponents of russian prime minister vladimir putin, nothing is being done to solve the murders of anna politkovskaya and other murdered journalists. in russia, dissenters are banned from assembling, but violating the ban is punishable by arrest. this is not acceptable. we want russia to be a democratic, economically developed and stable country, a reliable partner for its neighbours, the european union and nato members. unfortunately, russia's leading politicians are pursuing a very different policy, one that is increasingly alienating russia from other democracies. if russia wants to become a member of the world trade organization, its leaders will have to make a major shift in their attitude toward democracy, the rule of law, and human rights.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament resolution on the rule of law in russia, which points to violations of human and fundamental rights and the threat to the development of democracy in that country. i am pleased that parliament, in adopting this resolution, is in principle recognising that there is no rule of law and no democracy in russia. however, i would like to stress that the european union's policy towards russia will only be successful if the member states pursue a common foreign policy. the recent french deal with russia for the mistral attack warships shows that the common foreign and security policy of europe is a fiction. france's interests were more important than the common foreign policy. the agreement was reached despite the objections of the baltic states to the deal and comments by russian generals about the potential of these ships, which were missing in the war with georgia. such transactions undermine confidence between european countries and demonstrate the success of russia's policy of 'shadow' and 'government'. the european union can only promote the rule of law in russia if the member states put the common interests of all european countries above their own.
in writing. - i agree with the resolution, but it says nothing about what happens next. it is not enough to simply state the facts about the high cost of food! a food price control and optimisation management system is urgently needed. it is necessary to establish a mechanism for the regulation of monopolies, the fight against speculation and the elimination of abuses. a european agency for the general control of prices and services should therefore be established. productivity and efficiency in the production sphere should also be forecasted. this will prevent overproduction and minimise losses. it requires a lot of analytical work. this will allow the real costs to be determined and destabilisation to be avoided.
in writing. − despite the fact that, personally, i dislike elmar brok because of his inappropriate behaviour and anti-ukrainian rhetoric, i think that there should be compelling reasons for the waiver of the immunity. it is well known that the request for waiver was set out in a letter from the public prosecutor of bielefeld in which he claimed that mr brok failed to include in his income tax declaration for 2005 a fee of eur 5 000 for a speech he had given in munich on 28 october 2005 at the ‘europa forum’ held by the hypovereinsbank group, for which tax was due on an amount of eur 2 900. it is also known that mr brok did not pay this money and was caught for that mistake. nowadays, immunity is used as a kind of ‘cudgel’ for settling one’s account or as ‘loose change’ for manipulation of members of parliament.
in writing. − this report, adopted unanimously in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, is some kind of contribution by parliament to the revision of directive 2001/95/ec on general product safety. what is important is that the report underlines the significance of the revision of current european legislation, so that products which are unsafe can be located and stopped. this and other measures are intended to provide the eu population with protection from the appearance of dangerous products on the market, and that is why i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − this report evaluates the management of h1n1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the eu and highlights elements that should be improved: cooperation, independence and transparency in the management of future pandemic crises, namely through better application of the ecdc’s competence. however, one assessment is not enough and i have not noticed any further developments in the area of fast and efficient reaction to outbreaks of diseases and not a word about preventive measures. as always, the report is vague and unspecific. i voted in favour since there is no other report.
in writing. − the report is intended to transpose various recommendations adopted by the gfcm. these recommendations deal with technical measures. one of them is a matter of concern for the committee on fisheries, which considers article 28 (procedure for amendment) of the proposal to be a very dubious provision, insofar as it could threaten parliament’s prerogatives and the current institutional balance by inflating the commission’s implementing powers to the point that all future amendments to the regulation would be covered by the commission’s powers. the committee on fisheries therefore proposes that article 28 be deleted. it seems that the commission has not completely familiarised itself with the lisbon treaty, and it looks as though some officials have decided to take decisions that should in fact be made by parliament. that must not be allowed in any case. i voted in favour since i think this impudence on the part of the commission is simply going too far.
in writing. − a new financial transaction tax will not solve the budgetary problems of the member states of the european union, which is why i did not support the report on innovative financing in europe and the world. contrary to what some people believe, this tax is not paid by the banks themselves, but by the customers of the banks, i.e. the same taxpayers. in the period of economic recovery, it is not necessary to introduce new taxes, but instead to reduce government expenditure. a new tax would only mask the government's inability to reduce its spending without producing the desired effect.
in writing. − the adoption of this report would be the first strong signal by parliament in favour of a financial transaction tax at a time when the commission has an ambiguous approach, both showing willingness to regulate financial actors but exempting them from taxation. it is necessary to point to the hypocritical discourse of some right-wing leaders, calling for a form of taxation of the financial sector, but only at global level, where we all know it is most unlikely to be implemented. the commission should give a precise and clear signal about the fact that the transaction tax must be paid by everyone. the situation where farmers pay tax while financiers do not is not acceptable. social injustice gives birth to malice and permissiveness converts government institutions into a sandpit created by banks. i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − inequalities experienced in earlier life in access to education, employment and healthcare, as well as those based on gender and cultural background, do indeed have a critical bearing on the health status of people throughout their lives. it should be highlighted that nobody wants to deal with this problem seriously. therefore, the report of edite estrela is really timely. when we are able to ensure equal medical care for all population strata, society will become more efficient in the economic, financial and political sense. i voted for that report.
in writing. − we should help developing countries to elaborate policies and provide mechanisms to avoid tax evasion; this entails greater transparency. also, we should transfer our economic governance experience to individual countries to help them set up their own tax systems. reducing the level of corruption in developing countries and increasing their income will result in stability and balance. that will remove the tension and minimise the amount of financial aid from eu to developing countries. it is a very timely and important report, therefore i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − european farmers play an important role in providing food for more than 500 million europeans and in the overall global food security. sadly, farmers have not always been treated fairly. i fully support free trade agreements with other countries or groups of countries, but by concluding such agreements we must not put our farmers on an unequal playing field. the real losers from this unfair competition will be the citizens of the european union; they must be given the opportunity to receive high-quality food at reasonable prices every day. it is often taken for granted, without thinking that it is provided by our farmers, whose incomes are often well below the average in their own countries. and we don't have to do anything supernatural - we have to make sure that agricultural products imported into the european union are subject to the same environmental, social, animal welfare and safety standards that european farmers have to meet. it will be fair and will put farmers who want to sell their products in the european union on a level playing field.
in writing. − many studies show that protein deficiency has increased significantly in the european union over the past decade. the european union has therefore become more dependent on imported protein. several sectors are potentially exposed to the risk of not being able to provide themselves with protein crops at reasonable prices due to price fluctuations on the international market. unfortunately, several years ago, trade agreements with other countries created unfavourable conditions for competition in the eu for the production of protein crops. today, we are feeling the effects of this rash decision, so it is important to understand why it happened in order to identify the directions in which we need to work to prevent protein deficiencies. we are currently working actively on reforming the common agricultural policy. it focuses on supporting active farmers, environmental protection and rural development. but other things should not be forgotten in the reform of the cap. this resolution emphasises that the increased use of protein crops in the highlands significantly improves agroforestry and helps to mitigate climate change. i think that these are arguments that are compelling enough to make us tackle protein deficiency issues within the framework of the cap reform.
in writing. − the report asks the commission to include in the cap reform adequate and reliable measures and instruments to support farmers in improving crop rotation. it requests a legislative proposal which authorises processed animal protein from slaughter offal for the production of feed for monogastric animals (pork and poultry). if such authorisation is provided what will change? it is impossible to control the banning. why spend time on a report that is unnecessary and not easy to comprehend just to put a ‘tick’ for a rapporteur? i abstained since i do not vote for unclear, ‘cooked-up’ initiatives.
in writing. − i have examined the report thoroughly. i would like to highlight the main directions in the fight against poverty among women: combating poverty among women by means of employment policy and social protection; the importance of social dialogue and civil society in combating poverty among women; the importance of financial aid in combating poverty. it is highly important that on 8 march parliament adopted such important resolutions, which give a beam of hope in overcoming injustice! i voted in favour.
imagine the amount of money that leaves the european union every day in exchange for imported gas. if we could see it this way, if this money was transferred in trucks, there would be lines to the russian border, to north africa, to norway. there's been a quiet revolution in the world, not just the scale of what we're seeing in north africa, but in the extraction of shale gas. as many speakers have said, in the last decade, the united states has gone from being an importer of gas to an exporter of gas because of these new technologies that allow us to tap into shale gas. ladies and gentlemen, if we in europe have the opportunity to use these new technologies and to use the natural gas that is on european territory to tap into this gas, we could improve our overall economy by reducing our dependence on imports. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the euro has experienced several shocks in recent years that would have been devastating for any other currency. the eu's leaders have acted, albeit not always swiftly and decisively, to protect the euro. the situation is still difficult, but i am confident that europe will overcome this crisis and become economically stronger. this crisis has exposed the eu's weaknesses and has given a clearer indication of the changes needed in european union legislation, including the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) with regard to the stability mechanism for the euro area countries. i am convinced that the creation of a european financial stabilisation mechanism is one of the most important steps to avoid serious economic crises in the eu in the future. of course, the creation of the efsm will not solve all the problems, so it is important that member state governments recognise their responsibility to respect the maastricht criteria and implement sound, thoughtful and long-term-oriented economic and monetary policies. the situation of recent years must not be repeated, with member states implementing a 'green' economic policy, disregarding the maastricht criteria and violating other fundamental economic rules. the euro is not just a currency, it is a political agreement that symbolises the eu's ability to be united in diversity. the euro is the guarantor of stability, growth and unity in the eu, so i have no doubt that we europeans will be able to be farsighted and wise enough to overcome this crisis with political will and to give a new impetus to development.
in writing. − although the report contains the main guidelines and priorities for the 2012 budget, including the standards of legislative work in the european parliament, i do not think that the budget increase in terms of the rate of inflation is correct or justified. there are other mechanisms and ways of solving common problems and priorities. i voted in favour.
in writing. − taking into account the specificities of the atlantic region, parliament asks the commission to act as soon as possible to establish the eu strategy for the atlantic region as an integrated strategy dealing with maritime and territorial issues. though parliament believes that this strategy must develop synergies between relevant eu, national, regional and local policies, it calls on the commission and the member states to set up simplified rules to facilitate the implementation of this strategy and reduce the inherent administrative burden. in my view, this is not possible, because efficient measures of influence on the commission have not been found so far. i am getting the impression that the commission has still not started to change its priorities under the lisbon treaty and is conducting unjustified and long-lasting rhetoric with parliament to further its own opportunities. this is not being done in the general interest and is actually detrimental to the whole situation. i supported the report, but nevertheless remain of the same mind.
in writing. − today, as we look with bated breath and hope at the revolutions that have swept across parts of the arab world, my conviction that turkey's membership of the european union is a geopolitically strategic necessity will only grow stronger. turkey is a democratic islamic state that can serve as an inspirational example for other arab countries that, while maintaining their religious values, wish to build a democratic state apparatus based on the rule of law and respect for human rights. i am concerned that we are sending the wrong message to the turkish people and are strengthening the influence of anti-european and islamic fundamentalist forces. we must also recognise that we are doing a service to those who do not want to see the european union as the world's most powerful player. we must face the fact that europe cannot compete with countries like china, india or brazil in terms of economic development. turkey's accession to our union would make us bigger and economically stronger. we also have to recognise turkey's stabilising geopolitical role. i know from latvia's experience that accession negotiations are an important instrument to promote reforms in the candidate country, and it is therefore important that the eu opens new chapters in the negotiations with turkey. turkey's desire to enter into negotiations with the eu on the introduction of a visa-free regime is justified. the turkish government has done a great deal of work, and i would therefore like to stress that criticism of turkey's progress in eu reports must be commensurate with an objective assessment of the country's achievements.
in writing. − turkey’s accession to eu is not within the strategic interest of eu until turkey admits to the genocide of armenians and withdraws its troops from cyprus. i voted against the resolutions as a whole and against many separate odious points.
in writing. − although the committee on foreign affairs welcomes the european council’s decision to grant montenegro candidate status, serious problems remain as regards corruption, especially where the building industry, privatisation and the state procurement sector are concerned. there are still problems as regards minorities and unprotected groups as well. it would be correct to supervise the implementation of parliament’s recommendations to montenegro, and if these recommendations are implemented, i believe that the accession of a country like montenegro can only be a benefit to the eu.
in writing. − areas in which more effort from the eu is required in the roma inclusion process are priorities for the eu. unfortunately, there are problems involving education, medical care and the extreme isolation of these people. the report calls for the commission to present a strategic plan for introducing binding minimum standards at eu level for these priorities, including penalties for member states that do not comply with the objectives. although i am not confident that this will be successful, as a whole i voted in favour.
in writing. – no convincing and efficient resolution can be adopted while human rights are being strongly violated within european union. all loud statements and words turn into cynicism and undermine the basis of the fight against global injustice and lies. the european union should not give advice to third countries while in its own territory, namely in latvia, the government treats parliament’s resolution of 11 march 2004 with scorn and derision. it is not acceptable to demand that other countries do what the european union is not able to demand that the latvian republic should do. how can the eu be called ‘united’ when rules are not for every member state? until the resolution on 335 000 latvian non-citizens is implemented there is no sense in asking for changes in the area of human rights in third countries. it is a rough derision of democracy and human rights.
thank you, chairman. unfortunately, ireland is not the only country, and greece is not the only country. latvia was perhaps the first to experience the full weight of what banking led to. latvia has reduced the minimum wage below subsistence level, reduced pensions and reduced the minimum wage exempt from taxation. people protest, latvia has lost a fifth over the years, one fifth who have gone abroad and work abroad. the international monetary fund, which is supposed to be saving latvia, has imposed rules that are draconian. he allowed the money to be used to bail out the banks, to leave some money for the future to bail out the banks, but he didn't allow... (president of the european parliament)
the author. i don't want to repeat what my colleagues said, but actually, why are we asking this question? as it has been almost a year since these events and perhaps it is usually forgotten, we nevertheless wanted to keep this issue important to the commission and we await the commissioner's action on these promising issues as a lesson from last year's volcanic eruption. in fact, it has shown that the aviation market is an internal market of the european union, perhaps like no other european transport mode, and this in turn means that decision-making and preparation may require different action than for other modes of transport. both the absence of these measurements and the fact that the carriers are not involved in the decision-making process, as well as the fact that the decision is taken at the level of the member states - which is, of course, in principle a matter of law - but, although i represent a political group which always supports the principle of subsidiarity, i think that this time, in the light of the specific situation last year, we should consider, on the basis of this example, whether decision-making should not be done more at european level. passengers are also concerned about the fact that airlines treat passengers very differently and that obtaining compensation from these airlines through legal proceedings is not always the easiest way. it is not likely that different airlines can emerge from such a crisis in different ways, at different costs. finally, the third lesson i would like to draw from this crisis is that there are several 'islands' in the european union, so to speak, which are not connected by other modes of transport with other member states of the european union, and this means that this year, when planning the ten-t map, both the financial perspective for the future, the ten-t budget and the cohesion policy budget, we should find investments in other modes of transport to connect these 'islands' with the rest of the european union. thank you.
in writing. − it is known that according to commentaries and proposals from the european commission, the osce, and the european council, the media law in hungary should be revised as soon as possible in order to ensure its correspondence to eu legislation and european virtues and standards which relate to the freedom of media information, pluralism and the independence of the mass media. the new law is blamed because it implies that there would be only one person appointed responsible for the management of the national mass media and telecommunications. the new legislation undermines the pluralism and freedom of the mass media and removes its political and financial independence. all causes which lead to such a negative result should be examined. possibly the permissiveness of governments ruling some of the eu member states gave the government of hungary an illusion that commonly adopted rules can be cynically breached. for instance, the latvian government still has not implemented the european parliament’s resolution of 11 march 2004. and what has happened as a result? nothing so far. possibly the hungarian government was inspired by latvian ‘independence’. i voted ‘for’ in the hope that the ice has broken up.
in writing. − i am ‘overjoyed’ by the number of loud statements and expressions of condemnation! where were you before? was gaddafi born yesterday? there was no terror in libya? today, the cynicism of some eu leaders causes a sensation of disgust! until recently, all the leaders of the largest eu member states were cuddling up to the libyan leader and ingratiating themselves with him. and today they are ready to crucify gaddafi! it is better not to intrude in the internal affairs of another country, is it not? let the libyans solve their problems themselves, otherwise we might see get a full-scale rebellion in arab countries! i abstained.
in writing. − it is hilarious and at the same time very sad to talk about respect for rights and freedoms in a country which is ruled by a person who threatens to massacre the united states, europe and israel. there is no sense in negotiating with him about human rights and values and freedoms. such people understand only power. it is necessary to stop being ceremonious and to start transferring from word to deeds. complete isolation, severe sanctions, and a clear and consecutive position will yield a result. mahmoud ahmadinejad is a danger for global society.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the disaster that has befallen the japanese people is immense. i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and the deceased, and to their loved ones. the courage and self-control of the japanese people under severe trials will command the highest respect and serve as an example to the world. japan faces an intensive rehabilitation of the abandoned areas, which will require considerable resources, including international investment. i therefore call on the european union-japan summit scheduled for 25 may to take a decision on the opening of negotiations for a european union-japan free trade agreement. this agreement must be mutually beneficial and must ensure equal conditions of access to the market for both parties, both in the flow of goods and services and in the flow of agricultural goods. the free trade agreement could be one of the instruments for japan's third opening, as japanese prime minister kan has allegedly called it. the tsunami disaster at the fukushima nuclear power plant is a major cause of concern worldwide. we must bow our heads in respect and gratitude to the heroes who risked their lives to stabilize the situation at the nuclear reactor. the experience of japanese engineers and nuclear experts in accident prevention is unique. it is important that the world learn from this experience. the fukushima experience should serve humanity by becoming the basis for testing nuclear power plants and for the development of improved safety criteria. and in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the european union must do everything possible to help one of our closest partners - japan. thank you.
in writing. – unfortunately the rights of consumers purchasing industrial or food products are better protected than those of users of transport, medical care or education services. this is because it is difficult to prove that the service rendered was of poor quality. for example, the latvian airline air baltic, 51% of which belongs to the state, currently enjoys a monopoly. this leads to abuses in terms of passenger service and service supply. the director of the company, mr flick, has not seen fit to respond to questions from meps and simply ignores complaints from the general public. air baltic, with its machinations, is trying to make a fool of the european parliament. it is selling business-class tickets for aircraft on which business-class service is not provided. in parallel, air baltic is concealing frequent cases of aircraft malfunctions and thus continues to risk the lives of thousands of passengers. it is necessary to establish an enquiry committee to look into the practices of air baltic, otherwise the results could be tragic.
in writing. − given that moldova is experiencing difficulties with its wine exports to some of its traditional markets, which threaten its economic recovery and the reform process that it is vigorously pursuing, and in order to take measures to increase moldova’s wine exports to support its economic development, it is necessary to: 1. increase the duty-free tariff quota for wine under the autonomous trade preferences; 2. extend the validity of the relevant regulation (which is due to expire on 31 december 2012) for another three years, until 31 december 2015; 3. increase the duty-free tariff quota for wheat, barley and maize. i therefore voted ‘for’.
in writing. − the agreement is not perfect but does herald some serious progress. if there is no such agreement, someone might trigger the suspension clause, which would deprive the eu’s passengers and airlines of the significant gains that have been enjoyed since march 2008. given the fact that us is a difficult partner in negotiations we should aspire for progress in further negotiations in this direction. i therefore voted ‘for’.
in writing. − i fully agree with silvia-adriana ţicău: the agreement is the most ambitious air transport agreement between the eu and a major world partner. it will significantly improve both connections between the respective markets and people-to-people links, and will create new opportunities for the airline sector through a gradual liberalisation of foreign ownership rules. in particular, it is more ambitious and better focused than the eu-us agreement in terms of traffic rights, ownership and control.
in writing. − the eu and the gulf cooperation council have been negotiating a free-trade agreement (fta) for some 20 years: the longest-running non-concluded trade negotiations that the eu has undertaken. the report underlines that concluding the fta remains a priority. however, it goes beyond trade relations and also includes the issues of energy, industry and raw materials, r&d and innovation and education. i abstained from voting because the agreement should be drawn up in the context of a political response to the situation in the region. there should be a separate approach to every single country. let us take iran as an example. it would be a mistake to include ahmadinejad’s regime in the process of negotiations. more precise geographical or economic clarifications are necessary.
in writing. − the key requirements for the draft resolution on the eu general budget for 2012 are ensuring sufficient resources for the implementation of the eu-2020 strategy and enhanced cooperation between european and national budgets. the 2012 eu budget should boost growth and high-quality employment, and start implementing the eu 2020 objectives. the motto for deciding on the eu 2012 budget should therefore be ‘sustainability and responsibility’ rather than ‘austerity’. although i voted ‘for’, i would like to stress that the budget should be distributed so that financial resources are used for the benefit of citizens in the member states and not for the benefit of financial and political groups, as it is currently the case in latvia, where officials distribute eu funds among their acquaintances and friends!
in writing. − the purpose of this directive is to enable potential immigrants into an eu member state to obtain work and residence permits via a single procedure. under the original proposal, non-eu workers would get equal treatment with eu nationals as regards pay and dismissal, health and safety at work and the right to join trade unions. the employment committee wants to extend those rights to include equal working time and leave, while clarifying workers’ rights to social security and tax benefits. non-eu workers would also be able to receive their pensions when moving back to their home country on the same terms as nationals of the member state concerned. what is more, all eu member states will issue single standard permission for residence and work. i disagree with this because the eu still has an unemployment problem, and therefore voted ‘against’.
in writing. − the aim is to increase the confidence of shoppers and provide transparency for businesses so as to unleash the potential for growth in cross-border commerce within the eu. the new rules will cover almost all sales made in shops, by phone or online but will particularly strengthen the rules on cross-border transactions. buyers will know what information they are entitled to receive from the seller, and rules on deliveries will be spelt out. there will also be clear rules on precisely when risk is passed on to consumers as well as on customers’ rights to cancel a purchase, change their minds or have a product repaired or replaced. i would like to add that public transport and air transport tickets should be covered by rules on consumer rights. for example, i could cite the case of the airbaltic company where passengers’ rights are being ignored and the company refuses to accept responsibility for poor-quality service.
in writing. – in 2008, when i was a member of the latvian parliament i tabled a draft amendment to the criminal law of the latvian republic, toughening responsibility for domestic violence to women and children. unfortunately, the amendment did not go through. at the meeting of the specialised commission, when the amendment was being discussed members of the latvian parliament behaved cheerfully. as a result, cases of ‘light’ injuries of children and women in families remain unpunished. cases are usually not investigated and sometimes the police refuse to accept applications from victims. the protection of women from domestic violence is not regulated by efficient instruments in the latvian republic. the latvian authorities, the government, keep their eyes closed on obvious violations and are not going to put legislation in order. in the light of this report, i appeal to all members of the european parliament to pay attention to lawless behaviour towards women that is occurring in latvia.
thank you. madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to ask you a question: do you think it's possible to close french schools in belgium? or, say, closing german schools in france? it's not possible. but in latvia, where 40 percent of the population is russian-speaking, it is possible. today in the latvian parliament, nationalist and nazi mps want to hold a referendum on the closure of russian schools in latvia. at the same time, european commissioner knut vollebaek arrives in latvia and says he is proud of latvia's integration. you think i'm playing? you're wrong. and what do you think will happen if latvia closes russian schools? i'll tell you what. latvia is going to be in a civil war. if the european parliament does not act on an openly radical initiative today, it will be too late tomorrow. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your time. i think we need to draw a clear line between the past and the future. as regards the past, i would say that a separate solution has to be found for greece and ireland in particular. i think we need to let them write those losses down in the form of a structured plan so that these communities can get back on their feet. it is not right to continue to punish the taxpayers of these countries for mistakes that were actually made by the private sector, namely the banks. and as for the future, we have to look at what our goal is in europe. and that is to ensure stable growth. but to ensure stable growth, the means that is needed, and this is what was discussed in the council, is to ensure low government debt. what will the land or a small government debt provide? they will ensure the confidence of the financial markets in these countries, which in turn will ensure low interest rates so that their national companies can re-emerge and develop. then, when businesses grow, there will be investment. when there is investment, there will be the jobs we need in europe. and this process of cutting government spending to keep debt levels low doesn't exclude investment. several colleagues mentioned that investment is needed, that we cannot, as they say, save, save ourselves from this crisis, that we have to invest. and i can specifically mention my country, latvia, which has not only simultaneously made serious savings in the last two years, but this year, in 2011, has allocated one third of the government budget to public investment. so it's possible that we have to go this way in the future so that we don't get to where we are today. thank you for your attention.
in writing. i am pleased that the 23 eu countries have managed to agree on a package of measures to preserve financial stability and promote growth - the eiro plus pact. the agreement on the priorities for structural reform and fiscal consolidation and the final decision on the amendments to the treaty of lisbon to establish the european stability mechanism are also important. all countries should implement fiscal consolidation measures and measures aimed at addressing macroeconomic imbalances. structural reform measures to promote employment and social inclusion are also possible. they should be determined according to the individual situation of each country. the participation of 23 european countries in the pact raises hopes that its measures will contribute to economic growth. it is a step in the right direction and a sensible response to these economic challenges. this pact is perfectly in line with the work of parliament and the commission on improving the single market and the three reports on the single market that we are approving in parliament this week. we need to make even bolder decisions. member governments should not use the electoral cycle to delay important but unpopular decisions.
in writing. − taking into account that poland has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 594 redundancies in the period from 1 june 2009 to 1 march 2010 (of which 200 have been targeted for assistance) in three enterprises engaged in the manufacture of machinery and equipment in the region of podkarpackie in poland, i totally approve and support such an active position by the polish government and the opinions of my s&d group colleagues. unfortunately, the government of my country – latvia – does not respond to any requests and letters from my side and thus does not make use of aid from the stabilisation fund to overcome the financial crisis.
in writing. − migration flows arising as a result of instability constitute a challenge for the eu. wars and military conflicts, ethnic tensions, systematic violation of human rights – such as a prohibition to exercise one’s religion, natural disasters, lack of economic and democratic structure are among the causes of such migration flows. this phenomenon is of great concern since it may not only increase and strengthen tensions between the country of origin and country of destination but also between the country of origin and a country of transition. in order to address the challenge efficiently, the eu should conduct preventive policy by any appropriate means of foreign policy intended to deal with causes of instability so that emigration becomes an opportunity not a necessity. in the long term, the eu may undertake effective actions for optimisation of the use of its own financial instruments and existing institutional structures. the measures proposed in the report are not sufficient and are too declarative. a precise and specific financial economic plan is necessary. otherwise, europe will choke as a result of the wave of illegal migration. as a first step on the way to resolving this problem, the report is very useful.
in writing. − as was said, the report aims to highlight the need to implement the principle of gender equality in the common agricultural policy as a way of promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development. therefore the eu needs to refocus its eu support strategies in order to develop the rural areas in a women-friendly way. promotion of the entrepreneurial attitude and skills of women in agriculture, improving access and specific training for women, equipment of rural areas with the most up-to-date it infrastructure, greater recognition and more support for women’s networks, fostering the quality and accessibility of infrastructure facilities and service, adequate social security benefits for women working in agriculture, shared ownership of farms, specific attention for female immigrants are among the most important points which the different political groups agreed on. well, who would vote against it? how unspecified and populist it is! it seems that the rapporteur showed her kindness to women working in agriculture. nothing specific is said about children and healthcare. lack of efficient healthcare! the lack of efficient healthcare and pre-school education in rural areas is precisely what concerns women from latvia, estonia and lithuania. i voted ‘for’; however, the report is raw and unprofessional.
in writing. − the resolution assesses plans to decommission out-of-date nuclear stations in three eu countries: ignalina in lithuania, bohunice in slovakia, kozloduy in bulgaria. the resolution also estimates expenditure and delays in possible funding of energy projects which are not related to decommissioning. ‘possible funding’ is well said. it is necessary to define clearly and specifically exactly how powerful energy sources will be substituted, where and when new electric stations will be constructed by our financial means. i voted ‘for’ because i understand the hazard of nuclear stations, but what is the sense in decommissioning ignalina while other nuclear stations have not yet been built in the european union? maybe it is better to carry out reconstruction works?
in writing. − dual-use items are products which can be used either for peaceful or for military purposes. control over the export of dual-use items is a key aspect of non-proliferation of arms. having regard to high volumes of trade across the eu border, application of eu control over exports of dual-use items is based on preventive measures. control of exports has a large impact on eu trade policy. it would be nice if instruments of control do not become a means of fighting against competitors through business structures. to this end, it is necessary to create a long list of dual-use items; however it is a topic for another report. i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the application of specific guidelines to state-supported export credits, as i believe that all member states of the european union need clear rules on how to support exporting enterprises. export credit guarantees are an important instrument to help businesses to enter new markets and create new jobs. however, i did not support amendment no 22, which places an additional burden on businesses and makes european businesses less competitive than businesses in other oecd countries. in times of crisis, the member states of the european union need to reduce the administrative burden on business operators, rather than creating a new one. the european parliament should set an example in this area rather than seeking new reasons to impose additional burdens on businesses.
in writing. − the eu is a participant in the agreement on guidelines for officially supported export credits concluded in the framework of the oecd. it will be correct if the european parliament adopts amendments to the proposal of the commission intended to apply additional measures for transparency and accountability of reports in the european union.
in writing. − men’s violence against women is a structural violation of women’s human rights. counting all forms of male violence against women, 45% of all women in europe have been subject to and suffered from men’s violence. it is estimated that the total cost of domestic violence within the 27 member states could be as high as eur 16 billion. however men’s violence against women knows no geographical boundaries, no age limit, no class or race or cultural distinctions, it is still invisible and the victims are silenced. in 2008, i drafted amendments to the latvian republic’s criminal law regarding domestic violence. unfortunately, these amendments were rejected by the latvian parliament. i voted ‘for’.
president of the commission. − as i have already said in answer to another colleague, deciding on the energy mix is a matter that lies within the national sphere of responsibility. as you know, there are member states in the european union that have nuclear energy, for instance your country, spain, and others that do not have nuclear energy, for instance my country, portugal. so it is not up to the commission to say whether or not member states should have nuclear energy. we have to act within our spheres of responsibility. we have if fact now received new mandates as regards issues of nuclear safety. i believe we can and should fulfil the goals already agreed for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. i believe the 20% target that was unanimously agreed is reachable if the member states act with real determination in implementing all the measures that they can take to achieve what is a very important goal for the european union and indeed for the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. for weeks, the world has been watching with sympathy and alarm as japan's situation unfolds. i would like to pay my respects to the people of japan once again. i think we're with the people who are working day and night at the fukushima nuclear reactor to prevent a nuclear disaster. they are heroes who sacrifice their health and lives for japan and humanity. japan faces an intensive rehabilitation of the abandoned areas, which will require considerable resources, including international investment. the european union must therefore enter into negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan. recognising the japanese principle that negotiations can only be opened if there is a firm commitment to conclude them and to achieve a result, i am confident that the negotiations will resolve the uncertainties that have existed so far and will lead to a mutually acceptable free trade agreement. i would like to hear mr barroso's view on whether the commission supports the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement at the forthcoming japan-eu summit on 25 may and, if not, why and when the negotiations could start.
the rapporteur. − on the governance and partnership of the single market, we in parliament believe that one of the key tasks for bringing the single market to life is to provide it with top-level political leadership. the president of the commission, with the involvement of the president of the council, must take on the task of consolidating the single market. the member states must also be involved in this process in the most active way. otherwise, many of the ideas about what we could do to restore europe's growth and create new jobs, and make it more competitive in the global world, will remain just good intentions paving the way for europe to become the sick man of the world. in this resolution, we therefore call on the president of the commission and the leaders of the member states to play an active role and take responsibility for the implementation of the legislative and policy changes needed for the single market. the resolutions to be adopted today send a clear signal in which areas parliament expects the commission to take active action. i would mention some of the main priorities for work: the digital single market and the single area of intellectual property, the professional mobility of european citizens, the promotion of cross-border public procurement and services and the harmonisation of the tax system. in the area of single market management, i consider four areas to be of crucial importance. first, to ensure that the rules of the single market are respected. all member states must introduce single market rules in a timely and transparent manner, and the commission must strictly and consistently monitor their implementation. secondly, the reduction of protectionist tendencies. protectionism will only contribute to the fragmentation of the european market and to the reduction of overall competitiveness. third, reducing the costs of the various transactions necessary for the european economy to function. this is true of mechanisms such as efficient, simple and low-cost out-of-court dispute resolution, as well as of user-friendly electronic cross-border management with the necessary electronic flow of information and documents in place. and the fourth pillar is the wider involvement of civil society groups in policy-making and implementation, in line with the principles enshrined in the lisbon treaty. finally, mr president, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and coordinators for their contribution and their very productive cooperation, which i hope will enable us to adopt the single market resolutions today with a very convincing majority and to continue in the coming years the work on the drafting of legislative acts that will really consolidate the single market and make it a european instrument for growth and job creation.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for the quality of your speeches in the diversity of your opinions. i have listened very carefully to all your comments, to the expression of your vigilance, but also, in general - and i am aware of this, we need this - to the expression of your encouragement and support for our approach. i would like to thank again your three rapporteurs, mrs kalniete, mr buşoi and mr correia de campos, and to say to mr kožušník that he was right to emphasize the central role of chairman malcolm harbour in this debate, because it was not so obvious that eleven committees, of which i thank the rapporteurs who spoke, are working together. this is the holistic or global approach that was recommended by mr grech or mr monti and, in parallel, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, under the leadership of president barroso, has done the same work. we have worked with 12 other commissioners to find these 50 proposals and finally, next week, to identify the 12 levers for modernising the internal market and the 12 symbolic proposals for these levers. mr zwiefka spoke of utopia earlier, when he referred to the founding fathers. i remember what one of the founding fathers, mr jean monnet, said when the very first stage of the single market was created, with the first pooling of coal and steel in 1950. he said, "i'm not optimistic, i'm not pessimistic, i'm just determined". and i think, ladies and gentlemen, that at this moment, as i said earlier, when we listen carefully to the citizens, to their anger, their anxiety, and many of them are suffering, when we see the need for jobs, for growth, it is the moment for a new determination, particularly in the field of the economy and growth. and róża thun was referring to this european determination earlier. i think it is very important that, thanks to the joint work you have done between the various committees and between the various groups, in a very constructive way, you should be able to achieve - in any case, i hope so - a vote that will express this determination and which the council, on its part, and the commission, on its part, too, will have to take into account. in any case, i feel encouraged in my own determination by the joint and solidary work you have done, as i was encouraged by the success of the public debate we opened for four months on the single market act, since we received, i remind you, 850 contributions, and finally the european council itself expressed its support for our approach. this is how the commission will identify the proposals on which it will commit itself to delivering texts in the next 12 months and, i hope, council, parliament and commission, that we will be able to implement these texts in 2011 and 2012. you see, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission, and we ourselves, through your legislative act, produce a lot of regulations. the lessons of the financial crisis that i am preparing are reactive or preventive regulations. the single market act is intended to build proactive and dynamic regulation and to make this internal market, as mr juvin and mrs auconie have recommended, what it should be: an area of opportunities, rather than an area of constraints, as small and mediumsized enterprises and citizens feel. citizens are consumers, and we will work to ensure the safety of the products they consume and to remove all barriers to discrimination. citizens are workers, and we will work towards the recognition of professional qualifications, respect for social rights when working in another country. that is what mrs jaakonsaari or mrs gebhardt recommended. citizens use public services. this is a concern that many of you have expressed, including mr triantaphyllides, and i would recommend to mrs castex, who spoke earlier, that she read carefully - as she has no doubt already done - my colleague mr almunia's proposal on the revision of the monti-kroes package. it seems to me that it has new and open answers on the quality and access to public services. and then, citizens are savers, borrowers, with provisions like those i have just presented in a single mortgage market. and then there are the citizens, the companies that create jobs. mr creutzmann, mr karas and, most recently, mrs corazza bildt, all spoke of the need for competitiveness, particularly in small and mediumsized enterprises. we will work towards a more favourable fiscal accounting environment, progress on innovation, patents, copyright - as mr manders mentioned - access to investment and, i think, also on the private/public partnership. i would like to thank mrs vergnaud for her support of our project on concessions. we need to improve the governance of the internal market. andreas schwab said something very important earlier about decoupling, which i wanted to work on with my colleagues in the commission. the same breakdown applies to the evaluation of the different directives. i am making an assessment - as you know - country by country, service by service, of the services directive which mrs handzlik and mrs roithová have just mentioned, and i can see that there are divisions. there are sometimes telescopes for the same employee or the same engineer or architect, in the use of the services directive, the vocational qualifications directive, the electronic commerce directive. i want to work, mr. schwab, on this unclosing. and then mr løkkegaard or mr grech mentioned communication. before communicating, we must do something, and when we do something, we must be able to explain it and make sure that the citizens take ownership of what we are doing. that is why i attach great importance, in the whole internal market system, to the tools which bring europe closer to the citizens: the solvit system, which is beginning to work well, the imi system, the one-stop shops, 'europe is yours' and the forum, which mr grech mentioned, to facilitate dialogue between all the stakeholders and civil society. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to recall some of the convictions that have guided my actions throughout the mandate that i have been given with your support. the first conviction, since we are talking about the economy and employment. ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the world is not waiting for us. he's much faster than we are in some areas. we must not accept to be spectators of our own future. we europeans must be the actors of our own future. and the main argument, the main force for being actors of our own future, is the single market. i was in china a few days ago. we are respected because we are a market of 500 million consumers and citizens. let us continue this effort to pool resources and strengthen the single market as a supporting factor. the single market is the basis, the platform of our economy. if it works well, everything we put on it in terms of private initiatives for companies or public local, national, european, will work better. why are we fighting, for example, to unblock this patent issue which has been blocked for thirty years? it is because all private and public initiatives in innovation and creativity are weakened, weakened because we do not have a european patent or because we have a patent that costs ten times as much as in the united states. there, the platform must be working fine. that is what this is about and on top of that we will put a lot of initiatives more effectively. second conviction: it is time to work on new growth. and i want to agree with mrs turunen, who has just called for a different kind of growth. the growth that will emerge from this crisis, mrs turunen is right, must be different from the growth that has come before, more attentive to natural resources, to natural spaces, which are neither free nor inexhaustible, and we will translate these objectives in particular into the new code or the new regulation for public procurement, such as taxation, which must play a role towards greener growth. my third conviction, ladies and gentlemen, is that there can be no sustainable economic performance without innovation and social cohesion. this is the dynamic compromise that mr canfin mentioned and that mr monti recommended, including in the field of taxation. mr canfin was talking about this subject as mr cofferati did, and mrs toia has just mentioned a subject which will be included in the proposals for the single market act, namely the development of a sector in which i believe, namely the solidarity economy or social business. my fourth conviction, and i repeat it, is that to win the battle of competitiveness, every territory, no matter how fragile or how far from brussels, is necessary. every company can win its own battle, even the smallest ones, and we must help them. finally, every citizen, including the most vulnerable, those who are sometimes excluded by disability, can win their own battle in competitiveness, provided they are encouraged or supported. my fifth conviction is that, in relation to what is happening in the rest of the world, we must, i repeat, have the ambition to be actors and not spectators. we must also not accept that europe is simply a consumer continent. europe must remain a continent of production, not just of services, but a productive base, and this is also the aim of some of the proposals we will make on long-term investment. i have two ambitions, ladies and gentlemen, which i set before you when i became commissioner, and which i will continue to set for the rest of my term. we will put the financial markets we need back in the service of the real economy, and not the other way around, as we have seen for the last 15 years. it is not the companies that should work for the markets, but the regulated financial markets, better governed and supervised, that should be at the service of the real economy. and we want to put the real economy, the great single market, back in the service of growth and human progress. you will have to read next week - even if it is not perfect, it will undoubtedly deserve to be improved - the draft single market act in the light of your debates which the european commission will propose, also in the light of this double ambition: to put markets back at the service of the economy and to put the economy back at the service of growth and human progress.
the president of the council. - thank you very much to everyone who has contributed to this debate today. this is extremely important to me in two ways. on the one hand, they confirmed the hungarian presidency's conviction that the internal market plays a huge role in finally starting economic growth in the european union and finally creating jobs again. the other great benefit of this debate is that a lot of ideas and ideas have been put forward which we will be able to incorporate into the work of the council. the commission has already done a good deal of the work. of course, they still have much to do. the council will work very closely with this house in adopting the specific legislation. so thank you to everyone who has helped this process in the past as a rapporteur or as a member of the imco committee, and we look forward to your continued contribution. the hungarian presidency, and we have heard a lot about this, has put a strong europe on its flag. that's the motto of the hungarian presidency. we have always said that we are thinking of a strong europe which puts citizens, the people, at the centre of its policies, and this is something we must not lose sight of when thinking about the single market. i would like to address some of the issues that have been the subject of most discussion. the first is the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. they are indeed key players in the internal market and we want to do everything we can to put them in their place. this is due, on the one hand, to the easing of access to finance for smes, the reduction of administrative burdens and the simplification of their access to public procurement. we attach great importance to the review of the small business act, which will be on the agenda of the competitiveness council in may. we plan to accept conclusions on the subject. the second of these topics is the digital agenda. that was also the subject of much discussion today. there's a lot of untapped potential in this area, we all know that. we need to improve the conditions for paperless administration, for doing business. this is what e-commerce and e-government initiatives are for, but i believe that in a broader sense the consumer protection directive also aims to encourage cross-border transactions on the basis of uniform european rules. i would also mention the implementation of the services directive, which affects a large part of the internal market and one of the main elements of which is simplified electronic administration. the third point i would like to make is that i believe that the completion of the internal market is unthinkable without the construction and completion of energy and transport infrastructure. the hungarian presidency continued to focus on the implementation of the single energy market during the first three months. several people have mentioned infrastructure bonds in the debate, and we look forward to the outcome of the public consultation on this. the protection of intellectual property rights is also an issue to which we have paid great attention so far. i have already mentioned the european patent system in my introduction and i am confident that, once enhanced cooperation has been established, we will be able to work together to define its content and, as regards the implementing rules, we will be able to make the greatest possible progress at the competitiveness council in may, and i even hope that we will be able to bring the agreement to a head. finally, i would like to turn to the social aspects. this is the question that has generated the most interest and the most emotion in this room in today's debate. i understand that there is a very lively debate on this in the commission, in this house and i am sure that it will be the same in the council. a strong europe, with a human factor at its centre - as i said earlier. i think that this is a good indication of the hungarian presidency's attitude to this issue, but at the same time we can only do this in a balanced way and by considering all aspects. because if we put the human factor at the centre, then indeed job creation is the most important task, because if we guarantee that everyone who wants to work can do so, i think that is all we can give our citizens. the second is that we all know that the european social model, the european social market economy, has been challenged. it's in our mutual interest to protect it. of course, there's no one model across all 27 countries, we're doing this in different ways. and let's not get too realistic about this. this model has been challenged, and the competitiveness of the union, the competitiveness of the member states, depends on whether we can adapt this social model to the challenges of the 21st century. so we need to treat it not as sacred and inviolable, but as something that we can protect with a concerted effort, but adapted to the 21st century. finally, mobility, which has been the subject of much discussion. i think this is the area where we can perhaps make progress most quickly and easily, and we would certainly like to adopt conclusions on this at the competitiveness council in may. finally, the hungarian presidency intends to ensure the greatest possible visibility of the single market, and we are preparing for the highest level of commitment. we are counting on the members of the commission, the president, the president and the members of the european parliament.
the rapporteur. − in concluding this very fruitful debate, i would like to stress that it has shown that we, the members of the european parliament, are aware of our responsibility to the european people to revive the economy and create new jobs. the consolidation of the single market is as important to economic recovery as the other two initiatives: strengthening economic governance and strategy 2020. we need to build the political profile of the single market. both politicians and society at large need to understand its importance, and so communication communication with business, communication with europeans and also communication between the three institutions is a very important element in the revival of the single market. i am pleased that we are united in our commitment to revitalise and consolidate the european market.
in writing. − taking into account the fact that draft amending budget no 1/2011 to the general budget 2011 aims at mobilising the eu solidarity fund for an amount of eur 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the effects of flooding resulting from heavy rainfall in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania, i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the comoros expired in december 2010. the new protocol is valid from 2011 to 2013 and should be provisionally applied while the european parliament’s consent procedure is not closed. under the draft agreement, the parties undertake to promote responsible fishing in the comoros fishing zone based on the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in this fishing zone. with regard to fishing opportunities, 45 tuna seiners and 25 surface longliners will be authorised to fish. the new agreement in comparison with the former one contains a clause to interrupt the implementation of the protocol in case of human rights violations. i believe that it is necessary to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector using all financial instruments available. therefore i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − i know that the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the most recent agreements concluded by the european union and on the wto. bilateral trade agreements should always be fully compatible with the multilateral trading system. the commission needs to ensure that the implementation is effective. lingering disputes have a negative effect on the business community. therefore i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − it is known that greenland and the european union intend to sign a sanitary arrangement concerning fish and fishery products for human consumption. the objective of such an arrangement would be that greenland can trade these commodities with the union on the basis of internal market rules, provided that greenland transposes eu sanitary and, where appropriate, animal health rules on its fishery products. i support that arrangement and i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − if the aim of the resolution is to create an accessible, honest and efficient procedure for granting asylum on the territory of european union, in that case people looking for protection will be granted standard european union guarantees and eu member states will be able to distinguish asylum seekers from other migrants. i voted ‘for’.
in writing. − it goes without saying that tourism possesses a high potential which creates an opportunity to increase employment and economic growth. tourism plays an important role in social-economic integration of rural, peripheral and less developed areas which have a rich cultural heritage. statistics in the field of tourism are not used only for monitoring of tourism policy but also play an important role in the broader context of regional policy and sustainable development. i totally agree with the rapporteur.
in writing. − the amendment of regulation (ec) no 861/2006 establishes the second main financial instrument of the common fisheries policy after the european fisheries fund. the ‘so-called second instrument’ provides funding for data collection, and control measures, scientific advice, common fisheries policy control systems and enforcement. it is necessary to clarify the scope of some of the measures financed and to improve the wording of certain articles. furthermore, it considers, in the light of experience, that a number of minor adjustments should be made to enable the provisions of the regulation to be geared more effectively to real needs. the amendments to be tabled to regulation (ec) no 861/2006 should help to allow the specified co-financing rates of clearly defined common financing to be raised in the area of the law of the sea.
in writing. − as i understood, this report deals with international investment treaties. the main objectives of these treaties are to increase foreign investors’ access to markets and to provide a high level of protection for investments and investors against arbitrary actions by governments of states receiving the investment. before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, there was a division of tasks in which the commission negotiated market access of foreign direct investment (fdi) while the member states signed investment protection agreements with third states. with the lisbon treaty, foreign direct investment has become an exclusive competence of the eu and an integral part of the eu’s external trade policy. it is good that this report sends a strong signal to the commission and the council, which are about to start investment negotiations with third countries like canada, india and, soon to come, china. therefore it is crucial for the parliament to ensure responsible behaviour by european investors abroad, while at the same time protecting the eu’s right to regulate in the public interest.
in writing. − i know that the annual report examines how well eu finances are defended against fraud by the commission and by member states, as required in article 325 tfeu. there are areas where member states implement the budget (agriculture, cohesion, pre-accession funds) and for collection of the eu’s own resources through customs and duties. it is important to conclude the agreement on the fight against tobacco smuggling between eu and tobacco manufacturers.
in writing. − i am convinced that creating a safe and transparent environment for the function and the funding of european political parties is a deeply democratic act. we need a space, a european space, of acting political parties that bring citizens into the core of the union and help them in their everyday life. the adoption of specific rules makes this target possible and it is twofold: on the one hand, it provides current, quick and public information on the formation of the european political parties and their common european status. citizens are aware that participating in a european political party signifies that they are participating in a body covered by the law of the european union and that political parties have rights and obligations. on the other hand, the european statute of european political parties paves the way for the creation of a transnational party system. i voted ‘for’.
nuclear power now accounts for about one third of europe's total electricity consumption. if we want to replace that capacity in the short term, there are only two viable alternatives, which is to increase either coal or natural gas. both of these alternatives have difficulties: for coal, it's co2 emissions, for natural gas, of course, it's imports, mostly from russia. so in the short term, there are two things that we can do. the most important thing is what we've already talked about, the increase in security measures. but, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be satisfied with increasing security measures in europe, because russia and belarus, europe's neighbours, are moving ahead despite our debates on nuclear security. they will develop their own reactors, so we have to ensure that european high standards are imposed not only in europe but also in the rest of the world, especially in our neighbouring countries of russia and belarus. of course, the second thing that europe needs to do, and in the short term we can do, is to further strengthen our energy-saving measures and also to put more emphasis on renewable energy sources, using more wind, solar, water and biomass sources. and of course, in the long run, it's energy conservation and increased use of wind, solar, water and biomass that will reduce our dependence on both nuclear and imported energy sources.
madam president, i do support the european neighbourhood policy as a meaningful political framework for strengthening democracy in both eastern and southern dimensions, but i have now asked for the floor in order to pose the following question to all of us: whether the european union’s moral right to show third countries the way towards real democracy is well justified. both motions for resolutions recall such enp values as democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of the media, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. is the european union itself a champion in all these fields, taking into account, for example, the situation of the media in italy and hungary, mass statelessness in latvia and estonia and the suspicion of corruption in our parliament? i hope very much that we will maintain a… (the president cut off the speaker)
chairman! in my view, the submitted 2009 bank accounts would be supported and approved. as for the future, i agree with many of those who have spoken out. for my part, i think it would be worthwhile to undertake strategic reflection and analysis on the financing of investments, including subsidies, repayment of the member states' contributions to the eib's capital, loans, innovative instruments, financial planning and management geared towards long-term projects that do not produce immediate results, as well as the development of guarantee schemes, the creation of an investment section in the union budget, financial consortia between european, national, local authorities, political and public partnerships, and other options. this will give the bank an even higher quality of operations. thank you.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution and regret that parliament was unable to agree on any of the draft resolutions on this topical issue. i believe that nuclear energy must remain an important and reliable source of energy for europe. i support the call for comprehensive durability tests to be carried out on all existing and planned nuclear power stations, the satisfactory results of which should be a prerequisite for the further operation of these stations. i joined the concerns expressed in the draft resolution that the development of new nuclear projects in belarus and russia (in the kaliningrad region) raises serious concerns about compliance with nuclear safety standards and relevant obligations under international conventions and that these concerns must be addressed in solidarity by europeans, member states and the european commission. our union must therefore ensure that these endurance tests and the resulting nuclear safety standards are applied not only in the eu but also to nuclear power stations already built or yet to be designed in europe's neighbouring countries.
in writing. − the eu enlargement process is a powerful stimulus to the peace, stability and reconciliation process in the balkans. macedonia has made significant progress in its democratic transition, thanks in part to the political will to join the european family of states in full. the european commission has assessed this progress and, for the second year running, is inviting the european council to open accession negotiations with macedonia. and for the second year in a row, the council has not made that decision. it seems that one of the unjustified obstacles to the opening of these negotiations is the bilateral issues, including relations with greece. these disputes must not block the accession process of macedonia. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the accession process is still in progress and that the accession process is still in progress. of course, macedonia still has a tremendous amount of work to do to reform the public administration and the judiciary, to successfully combat organised crime and corruption, and to develop democratic dialogues in society. of course, the admission of any new member state, including macedonia, to the eu will only take place once they have fulfilled all the requirements and only with the explicit consent of the eu institutions and the eu member states. and that is why it is important to start the accession negotiations process, which i am sure will bring positive changes to macedonia and the region as a whole.
madam president, my request to make a one-minute speech on the withdrawal of democratic rights to vote in elections and stand for election in spain was sent to the secretariat last wednesday, at which time the supreme court, at the request of the spanish government, had banned the bildu electoral coalition formed by two legal parties, eusko alkartasuna and alternatiba, as well as independent candidates. as a member of the basque friendship group ‘toward a peace process in the basque country’, i was among those signing the declaration aimed at requesting the spanish government to reconsider its position and take all necessary measures to ensure that the elections held on 22 may respect basic democratic principles. last friday, meanwhile, by a decision of the spanish constitutional court, bildu was allowed to stand for election. i very much welcome this decision and wish to express my hope that the elections held on 22 may in the basque country will be conducted in accordance with all international standards relating to democracy and electoral law.
in writing. − mr de magistris was summoned to court on charges of slander. in connection with this, he asked the european parliament for protection of his parliamentary immunity and privileges. in line with the report, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should protect the immunity of mr de magistris. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − i know that the objective of the agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the implementation of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems. as of 31 january 2011, 23 fao members had signed the agreement and two instruments of accession had been deposited. as the european union is a major player in international fisheries and one of the main global markets for fishery products, the rapporteur proposes that parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement and firmly supports and encourages the european commission to continue to push for the adoption of these proposals. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − as is known, after the unprecedented and devastating floods in pakistan in july and august 2010, the european council at its meeting on 16 september mandated ministers to agree urgently a comprehensive package of short-, medium- and longer-term measures which will help underpin pakistan’s recovery and future development. the draft regulation extends autonomous trade preferences to pakistan by suspending for a limited period of time all tariffs for certain products of export interest to pakistan. a list of 75 dutiable product lines of importance for pakistan’s exports has been established (mainly textile and clothing). the selected product lines amount to almost eur 900 million in import value, accounting for about 27% of eu imports from pakistan (eur 3.3 billion). i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the european union has a duty to continue to help georgia develop into a modern democracy that can serve as a model for other countries in the region. since the rose revolution, the georgian government has consistently pursued democratic reforms, modernizing its country and undertaking difficult, unpopular but long-needed economic and social reforms. according to the world bank's "doing business 2010" index, georgia has the 12th "easiest" business environment in the world. only 3 eu member states rank higher than georgia according to this index. it has made significant progress in combating corruption, a major problem in all post-soviet countries. i am convinced that georgia is an example for the countries of the caucasus region, and i am not afraid to say that it can also serve as an example for some of the eu member states that today lack the political courage to carry out reforms that would pave the way for growth and modernisation. when dealing with georgia, we must not forget that 20% of georgia's territory is still occupied. russia must fulfil the agreements on the territorial integrity of georgia and the european union must consistently keep reminding the russian leadership of this.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. if you live in an apartment that is too noisy, there is always the possibility of moving somewhere else, perhaps just a few blocks away. unfortunately, as the chernobyl accident 25 years ago and the fukushima accident a few weeks ago remind us, with nuclear accidents, there is no such possibility of simply moving a few blocks away. nuclear safety is not a local issue. it's actually a global issue. europe is joined by russia and belarus, which today do not have the same high safety standards as we have in the european union. but we, as europeans, cannot get away from our neighbours. we need to make sure that our safety standards are not just for europe, but for europe's neighbours and indeed for the whole world. so i urge you, commissioner, not only to do these stress tests in europe (and they must be done, and they must be done hard), but you must work to make sure that we apply european standards and european stress tests to our neighbours and to the world. and in this connection, europe also has the opportunity to influence our immediate neighbours, linking energy purchases to nuclear safety. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the report of mep sajjad karim contains a legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs (codified text). the purpose of this proposal is to undertake the codification of council directive 89/396/eec of 14 june 1989 on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs. i totally support the new directive because it will supersede the various acts incorporated in it; this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − as i understand, the report contains a legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council directive 80/181/eec of 20 december 1979 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement and on the repeal of directive 71/354/eec. it is very good that the new directive will supersede the various acts incorporated in it; this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles will help to achieve the main purpose of the proposal – to undertake a codification of council directive 70/157/eec of 6 february 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles. i agree with the initiative of mr sajjad karim and i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver’s seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors is very timely. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council directive 87/402/eec of 25 june 1987 on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver’s seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors. i supported this initiative by voting ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the report considers the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council directive 86/415/eec of 24 july 1986 on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the report of sajjad karim contains the european parliament legislative resolution on the amended proposal for a council directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco. it is known that the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council directive 92/79/eec of 19 october 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, council directive 92/80/eec of 19 october 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes and council directive 95/59/ec of 27 november 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco. this initiative is very important and timely. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the report of sajjad karim contains a legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. taking into account the likelihood of the accession of new states to the euro area this initiative provides a new opportunity to prevent the activity of money counterfeiters. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the report of toine manders is aimed at helping the buyers of textile products. new rules on textile labelling are proposed which will help customers avoid the risk of buying textile products which contain natural fur or leather. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − when the european union adopted regulation no 2007/2000 it granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the key aim of these measures is to revitalise the western balkan economies through privileged access to the eu market. in turn, economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region. the validity of the trade preferences should not be terminated because this could have negative consequences on the overall economic performances of the western balkans, with consequent negative repercussions on their domestic reform and transition processes. moreover, their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised. therefore, i agree with the rapporteur who strongly supports the amendment of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 december 2015 and i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme. i believe that the common radio spectrum policy will provide new opportunities for the eu member states to develop their information and communication technology industries. businesses will be able to offer new and high-quality services that will stimulate the development of the european economy as a whole. however, international agreements concluded for the opening of certain frequencies at international level should also be taken into account when making changes to spectrum policy. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create or maintain an economic activity. this should be taken into account and provision should be made for the opening of frequencies only if countries such as russia and belarus do so. the member states must not be allowed to put the ambitions of the european union ahead of their actual capabilities.
in writing. − the rapporteur gunnar hökmark believes that it is crucial to defend the dates as set out by the commission (for example the 800 mhz band should be available for electronic communication services by 1 jan 2013). any exceptions or derogations should only be given for purely technical reasons while specific needs for security and defence must be taken into account. bands already designated by the commission should be freed up by 1 january 2012, according to the commission’s proposal. the union has to work to get more frequencies allocated for mobile services, with a target of a minimum amount of 1200 mhz. it is necessary to get the right principles in place that can enable additional spectrum releases in the future. i support the rapporteur and therefore voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the scope of the register covers all activities carried out with the objective of directly or indirectly influencing the policy formulation or implementation and decision-making processes of the european institutions. all organisations, irrespective of their legal status, engaged in activities falling under the scope of the register are expected to register. in the committee on constitutional affairs many across the party lines stressed the importance of the council becoming part of the system. the vote by the committee on constitutional affairs is an important step forward but our work on transparency continues. i support the report of carlo casini and voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the aim of the resolution is to strengthen corporate governance, which is considered by the commission to be the major element of the programme of financial market reform and crisis prevention. i disagree with that because it may lead to an increase in corruption and violations. i voted ‘against’.
in writing. − given the size of india’s market (more than 1 billion inhabitants) and its impressive growth rates (averaging over 7% a year since 2000), coupled with high levels of protection, india is one of the eu’s obvious partners for concluding one of the new generation of eu ftas launched as part of the global europe strategy in 2006. the eu-india summit on 10 december in brussels instructed both sides to speed up the negotiating process to pave the way for the conclusion of negotiations in 2011. it is necessary to take into account the dumping aspect of the relationship with india; if there were no point related to this i would vote ‘against’.
in writing. − since the eu and japan are close economic partners they represent more than 20% of world trade but bilateral trade volumes are not as large as they could be. eu exports to japan, as a ratio of japan’s gdp, are less than 2%, considerably below the ratio in the eu’s other main markets (the us, china, korea and india). there is therefore a considerable unrealised economic potential that could be explored by reinforcing trade ties between the two blocs. negotiations should implement bilateral movement. it is unacceptable to have unequal commodity turnover between the eu and japan. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − it is known that the report stresses the fact that forests should be seen as a major contributor to climate change mitigation and adaptation, rendering necessary the reinforcement of the eu strategy for combating the factors causing their deterioration, e.g. pests, forest fires, etc. moreover the report focused on establishing a general context concerning forest protection, namely subsidiarity, diversity of threats according to different forest types, the central role of sustainable forest management and the importance of forests for competitiveness and employment. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the report was adopted in the committee on foreign affairs by an overwhelming majority where i voted ‘in favour’ too. it has achieved a balanced approach to the most pressing issues of the organisation and activities of the european external action service and key issues of common foreign and security policy, such as the promotion of the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, promotion of gender equality, energy security, the situation in iran and afghanistan, the eu’s response to the democratic changes in the southern mediterranean, and relations with major players, such as russia, china, japan and india.
in writing. − i supported the report on the development of the common security and defence policy after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, but i believe that a full-fledged common security and defence policy is still a long way off. it is not permissible for individual member states to engage in transactions which threaten the security of another member state. france has engaged in a warship deal with russia, which in the recent past has occupied georgian territory in war. russia has also conducted challenging military maneuvers in the vicinity of the baltic states, which have expressed their concerns about the aforementioned transaction. despite repeated expressions of concern from the white house, the european union institutions and officials have not taken any action to stop france from entering into a military deal with russia. french politicians are understandably concerned about their own economy and shipyard jobs, but the economic growth of one country in the european union cannot be achieved at the expense of the security of another. such action is contrary to the principle of solidarity existing in the european union. there should be no exceptions to this principle, and it applies to both large and small countries. only when member states are truly united can a common security and defence policy be fully effective.
in writing. − i have scrutinised the report very attentively. the report is divided into five parts: security and foreign policy, security and defence, external and internal security, security through operations and security in partnership. the report provides a clear vision of how the eu should implement its general security policy and defence policy in order to become the strongest autonomous strategically acting player, with the aim to provide security and stability in europe and the world. i voted ‘in favour’.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. - what? in many families, parents give attention to the child who cries the loudest when it should be given to a different child. similarly, politicians and the press tend to focus on the big companies that have a lot of money, that have a lot of voice, when they should be focusing on the other companies, which are the small companies. the big companies are like big trees to us in europe, but these big trees do not make up the whole corporate forest. a couple of numbers. over 90% of companies across europe are small and medium-sized, not large. about three quarters of the workforce are directly employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for an equal share of europe's gdp. it's time we shift our attention away from the big companies that are loud -- i don't want to say "like children", but they are loud -- and focus on the quieter ones, which are still mostly working directly with the little ones. and in this context, commissioner, i would urge you to pay more attention to your own commission's commitment to reducing the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. you can do this by assessing your legislation without introducing rules that increase administrative burdens. by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, we will accelerate economic growth across the european union. thank you for your attention.
thank you, chairman. i fully support the strong position of the european parliament and the members present here that human rights, not only in the european union but throughout the world, are fundamental rights, that is, the basis of our lives. but i do not support the general (without specific examples) blame of a country, its leader or the whole nation for crimes they did not commit. if we talk about how someone from the opposition, and not only from the opposition, but also others, is arrested, and in that situation they encounter some kind of dictatorship, then why do we have courts in a democratic system? let the courts deal with what happened there and who is rightly and wrongly convicted or arrested. just because you're in opposition doesn't mean you can do anything you want. i ask for a very tolerant and equal treatment of all.
for the ecr group thank you, mr president. although the deportations to the baltic states on june 14, 1941, and the second wave of these deportations in march 1949, led to thousands of innocent people being sent to siberia and death camps for years of humiliation, the public mind in europe and the world has not yet come to terms with this fact. world war ii ended more than 65 years ago. the evil done to mankind by hitler's totalitarian regime has long been appreciated and condemned. however, the genocide perpetrated by the stalinist regime in the occupied countries of eastern europe, including russia itself, is still a topic that is best left unmentioned in some modern political circles, and the european union has not yet completed its assessment. the crimes of the soviet regime have left a lasting negative impact on the psychology of the people of the baltic states. the soviet system of thought, based on lies and terror, as alexander solzhenitsyn put it, was a flawed and unacceptable creation of human nature. it has eroded human values, traditions, solidarity and self-awareness. why do my countrymen still have to listen to the moscow story that there was no occupation of the baltic states, that there was no occupation of the baltic states as a result of hitler's (molotov-ribbentrop) pact, but that it was the socialist choice of the baltic states in the summer of 1940? why should i still have to hear the story, and my countrymen as well, of the liberation of these deported, educated and better people in the baltic states? i therefore call on the european commission to give all possible support to the proper investigation of the crimes of the communist regime, initiated by the ministers of justice of several member states, including all the baltic states, and to complete this unfinished work of assessing the crimes of all totalitarian regimes. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we all know that doping in sports is illegal. doping is prohibited because it gives some athletes an unequal advantage over others. but, ladies and gentlemen, in the european union we have a certain kind of doping not of athletes but of farmers - and it is precisely the unequal support of farmers. for example, a farmer in latvia receives three times less support than a farmer in germany or even six times less support than a farmer in greece. this unequal aid creates unequal competition. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to this doping and this unequal support for farmers in the planning and planning of the next european financial perspective and period, so that all european farmers can be equally competitive. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i warmly thank our rapporteur, mr falbr, for his work, and despite his initial concerns the report remains very strong. speaking on behalf of the greens/efa group, i would emphasise once again that the international labour organisation’s role should be strengthened. voluntary corporate social responsibility is a good thing but the primary role in promoting and protecting human rights belongs to states and international organisations. we do not think that legally binding standards should be avoided in the field of corporate responsibility: in europe we should create additional standards for company reporting. on the other hand, the violation of fundamental principles and rights at work cannot be used as a legitimate comparative advantage. europe should promote its social model and improve, rather than reduce, social standards both internally and externally.
mr president, as a shadow rapporteur on behalf of the greens/efa group, i would like our position on this report to be quite clear. first of all, while we appreciate that the final text may be improved by the votes tomorrow, it is strong enough, and we would simply underline that the role of the international labour organisation should be strengthened. on this we agree with the rapporteur. voluntary corporate social responsibility is a good thing but the primary role in promoting and protecting human rights belongs to states and international organisations. we do not think that legally binding standards should be avoided in the field of corporate responsibility. violation of fundamental principles and rights at work cannot be used as a legitimate comparative advantage and we must insist, in bilateral and multilateral relations with our partners, that decent work standards are properly complied with.
for the ecr group thank you, mr president. i would also like to thank the council and the commission in the first place for finding this compromise, and in particular my colleague, mr saïd el khadraoui, for this very good way of concluding these negotiations without losing sight of the objective. the ecr group will support the compromise agreement because several of the solutions reached are actually good achievements, the compromise was very fragile on the council's part and it is understandable that a number of issues, such as the scope of the directive or the collection and diversion of earmarked funds to member states, were sensitive right up to the end of the negotiations. further reconciliation talks are likely to have a worse outcome or to have no outcome at all. and here the key is to move forward with the introduction of the polluter pays principle. because the damage done to the environment must be compensated and the infrastructure must be improved, and as my colleague dirk sterckx has already mentioned, this is the first legislation at european level where this principle is incorporated at european level. this principle and the levy should be introduced in all member states. unfortunately, several countries have not yet introduced eurovignette 1 infrastructure charges and it is likely that these same countries will also be delayed in introducing eurovignette 2 for a very long time. this distorts the market situation in freight flows and in reality the roads are maintained with the money of the taxpayers of these member states and the european union, and in reality they are all bought by carriers from third countries, and the infrastructure remains undeveloped and external costs are not compensated. we shall hope for the will of the member states. thank you.
in writing. − the european parliament,having regard to article 286(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the eu, pursuant to which the council consulted parliament (c7-0103/2011), having regard to the fact that at its meeting of 24 may 2011 the committee on budgetary control heard the council’s nominee for membership of the court of auditors, having regard to rule 108 of its rules of procedure, having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0190/2011),whereas h.g. wessberg fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the eu,delivers a favourable opinion on the nomination of h.g. wessberg as a member of the court of auditors; instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and, for information, the court of auditors, the other institutions of the european union and the audit institutions of the member states. i voted against because i think that it is possible to find more suitable person for the position offered, from the professional point of view.
in writing. − since ágnes hankiss is accused of alleged defamation under section 181 of the hungarian criminal code, as a result of a statement made during the programme on 23 january 2004, i voted in favour.
in writing. − since the report is on a commission proposal that aims to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of textile products, i voted in favour.
in writing. − as is known, the centre is working basically with policy-makers at the level of the community and the member states, which thus help to develop a strategy for combating drugs and providing information to the general public. at the present time attention is mainly paid to implementation of the eu action plan for 2009-2012, which is aimed at strengthening european cooperation in the struggle against the unacceptable consequences of drug addiction. i would like to see the centre working not only on the consequences but also on the causes of drug addiction, thus solving the problem at an early stage. i voted in favour.
in writing. − satellite navigation systems should ensure interoperability between different systems and should also allow intermodal use in passenger and freight transport services. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report covers the framework to evaluate individual air agreements, taking into account the changes under the lisbon treaty, to be used for all future negotiations, conclusions and parliamentary approval thereof (via consent). relevant criteria for air agreements with third countries include balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition in terms of state subsidies, environmental and social standards. i voted in favour.
in writing. − eurovignette iii will allow member states – if they so wish – to charge road users for external costs (air, noise, pollution), so that finally the ‘polluter pays’ principle is introduced in road transport. taking into account that the tax system is opaque and irrational i voted against.
in writing. − recycling and prevention of waste, air emissions and climatic change and sustainable consumption and production could be monitored much more effectively if high-quality data were available regarding the interaction between environmental and economic factors. the relevant data collection, which until today was made on a voluntary basis at eu level, should become therefore mandatory. moreover environmental data currently available should be expanded in the medium term to facilitate the necessary policy assessment of the european environmental policy. i agree with the rapporteur’s position and i voted in favour.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the issue at stake is whether we grant assess to the schengen area for bulgaria and romania. i myself come from a new member state and i remember how it wanted to join the area. i therefore very much welcome the accession of bulgaria and romania to that area. there were some shortcomings on the road to schengen, but now the problems are resolved. bulgaria and romania are fully prepared to join the area of free travel in 2011. i understand the concerns about corruption and organised crime. that is why cooperation within the framework of the mechanism for cooperation and verification should be continued. however, we cannot invent new criteria for joining the schengen area and we cannot undermine the certainty that a state is part of that area as soon as current criteria are met. the debates in parliament have revealed a clear need to avoid double standards when evaluating the implementation of the schengen acquis in existing and acceding schengen member states. the file on that evaluation is thus crucial. we find it unacceptable that several member states have suggested, in the council, changing the legal bases for the proposal so as to exclude parliament from the decision-making process. i hope very much that our rapporteur, mr coelho, will defend parliament’s prerogatives, as he always does very successfully, with our full support. i would like to thank him for his work and hope for further good cooperation in the future.
i would like to remind my colleagues that when we approve the budget we must bear in mind that there is a growing scepticism among the european public about what we are doing here. in this context, i believe that the budget is not sufficiently aligned with the ambitious objectives set out in the eu 2020 programme. and another question: mr commissioner, you have promised to balance direct payments to latvian farmers with this budget. well, if he's confirmed as he is, then it's gonna be hard for you to keep your promise. i want everything we talk about, everything we decide to do, to be in the best interest of our constituents.
in writing. − it seems that romania and bulgaria have proved that they are to a sufficient extent ready to fulfil the schengen acquis. there are many unresolved issues in the report on expansion of schengen area prepared by carlos coelho. from the assumptions of reports of evaluation missions and results of repeated evaluation visits, i came to the conclusion that there are separate areas which require constant monitoring. the report, which has not been adopted yet, is the conclusion of a repeated visit by the evaluation mission regarding the external border of bulgaria. therefore it is clear that the triangle bulgaria-romania-greece is one of the most sensitive regions from the point of view of illegal migration and that requires bulgaria to prepare additional measures to resist migration pressure. i think that the report should be accepted. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in keeping with past practice, the committee on foreign affairs draws up parliament recommendations to the council for the session of the united nations general assembly. as i understand it, ep priorities are: an enhanced role for the eu in the un system, taking into account the institutional changes brought by the lisbon treaty, a need for guidelines ensuring proper consultations between the ambassadors of the member states in order to avoid discordance of eu voices as in the case of libya, an adequate budget for un women, further strengthening of the role of the icc, support for the un mediation unit and a key role for the eeas in this context, improvement of the relationship between the un peacebuilding commission and the eu peace-building partnership and finally stronger eu leadership in the area of global climate governance. all the above-mentioned issues are timely and i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the report on the mid-term review of the european union's seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities, as i believe it is a true reflection of both the challenges already achieved and those that exist. the european union has the potential to become a world leader in innovation and invention. this would give a new impetus to our economic growth and increase the well-being of our citizens. we can achieve this by doing a number of chores, the most important of which is reducing bureaucratic obstacles. to become a citadel of innovation, it must avoid the bureaucracy that keeps funding out of reach of researchers and entrepreneurs. with an old and rigid bureaucratic system that hinders the development of young and dynamic enterprises, the european union will not achieve its stated target of investing 3% of gdp in research and innovation by 2020. the european union must change with the times and shed the burden of bureaucracy. and this approach must start with a research programme that is a source of funding for new inventions, new ideas and new jobs.
in writing. − the seventh eu programme aims to build a united european knowledge area based upon achievements of former programmes and to implement further research towards strengthening socio-economic factors in the development of europe. scientific research is one of the bases of the european strategy for economic development, ensuring competency, development of the social area and environmental protection. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the potential agreement covers a wide range of issues: trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights, public procurement, regulatory cooperation, investment, temporary migration (mode iv), competition policy and labour and environmental standards. both parties still need to find an agreement on several crucial chapters of the negotiations, among others on access to government procurement, investment and public services. there are two other issues that came up in the negotiations that are quite sensitive in the ep. the first issue concerns the canadian oil sands and the eu’s fuel quality directive. the fuel quality directive has been highly debated in the committee on the environment. as yet, the canadian government believes this directive discriminates between canadian oil imports and oil imports from other countries. i consider the agreement to be too early. the second issue is the eu’s ban on seal products and it is highly important. this agreement could reinforce the already strong bilateral trade and investment relationship between the eu and canada; however, it should be mutually beneficial and therefore i have abstained from voting as yet.
in writing. − this own-initiative report raises the main current issues concerning the credit rating industry amongst which the most important are the lack of competition, oligopolistic structures and the lack of accountability and transparency notably regarding the rating of the sovereign debt. i consider it to be very timely. it is necessary to do our best not to repeat the situation which happened with greece. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the external dimension of social policy is a key priority for our group and for me. we have recently adopted a resolution concerning the future convention on domestic workers to be adopted in june 2011. this report calls more generally for the strengthening of the core labour standards which are embedded in ilo conventions, including freedom of association and collective bargaining, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour. the s&d group demands a change in global governance and in the eu in order to better implement workers’ rights and working conditions. the failure today inside and outside the eu to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to european enterprises and workers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − vocational education and training should be accessible, available and affordable at all times of life, regardless of people’s status on the labour market or of their income. it is necessary to create training opportunities for specific groups, such as unemployed youth, ethnic minorities, vulnerable women, people with disabilities, etc., in order to achieve better social integration and greater social cohesion. financing opportunities should be widened, simplified, and made more readily available, using the funding currently provided under the european social fund and the lifelong learning programme. in my opinion, this initiative is very important and timely. i voted in favour.
in writing. − eu principles of rendering assistance to developing countries which are not covered by the cotonou agreement or by the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument are very important. in terms of this financial instrument it is possible to render financial aid to acp countries (african, caribbean and pacific group of states) in restructuring the manufacturing of sugar, and financial support for five programmes is envisioned: food security; environment and sustainable development of natural resources, including energy; migration and asylum granting; investment in human resources; the role of local authorities and non-governmental organisations in development processes. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i scrutinised the report very attentively and summarised its key points: (1) the scope of scrutiny (not only cost-benefit analysis, but an integrated approach); (2) the inclusion of stakeholders from all the policy areas while the methodology and final quality control should remain under the remit of the european institutions, with an increased consultation period from 8 to 12 weeks; (3) the revision of the interinstitutional common approach to impact assessment to encourage all the institutions to implement a common methodology on ias. potential for improvement at the commission level: (1) the increased scrutiny by the european parliament and the council over the impact assessment board; (2) systematic ex-post assessments of existing legislation and analysis of the relevant ecj case law. potential for improvement at ep level: the main focus is the creation of an autonomous structure within the ep led by a supervisory board consisting of meps, possibly appointed at the beginning of each term, making use of the existing resources but also of seconded national experts. i abstained from voting because i do not understand on which criteria experts for the advisory board will be appointed and what power they will have. i cannot support the report.
in writing. − on 1 july 2010 the commission presented a green paper on policy options for progress towards a european contract law for consumers and businesses. the policy options include soft law options, an opt-in regime called the 28th system, the unlikely approximation of substantive national law (because of resistance by the council and the impossibility of overnight merging of national legal traditions) and the option of creating a fully fledged european civil code. i totally support the report, especially in the context of human rights violations in the latvian republic. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is known that gdp (gross domestic product) is the aggregated added value of all money-based economic activities. gdp is the expression of a production/consumption-based society and does not take into account changes and assets in important fields. taking into account the need for improved data and indicators to complement gdp, various measures are suggested that would provide a more reliable knowledge base. the need to develop additional indicators for measuring medium- and long-term economic and social progress is highly urgent. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu took an important step with its political decision. the report is a mid-term review of this flagship initiative, assessing the process and implementation so far and launching the debate on its future governance, exploitation and financing in the eu system. in my view, it is necessary to launch a comprehensive analysis to obtain a more precise identification of the possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation after 2013. i fully support the report of vladimir remek and i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it sets out the main challenges and priorities for the new multiannual financial framework of the eu. i would particularly like to highlight the call in the resolution for the commission to come forward with proposals for a more effective and efficient common agricultural policy (cap) that would distribute direct payments more fairly between member states and farmers and strengthen the link between the provision of public benefits to society and support payments to farmers. i fully support the requirement to maintain the level of the appropriations allocated to the cap in the 2013 budget year at the same level for the next financial programming period in order to allow the cap to implement its extended objectives and tasks. the new eu funding system must be more transparent, simpler and fairer. i therefore support the proposal to gradually replace the system of national contributions, which places too much emphasis on the balance sheets of the member states and not on the principle of european solidarity and the common european interest, with the union's own resources, which the union would collect without distinction and independently of national budgets.
in writing. − although the european parliament's report on investing in the future - a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe - contains many supportive ideas, i did not support it because i believe it undermines the image of the european union in the eyes of the public. the report calls for an increase in the tax burden on european citizens, and i cannot agree with that. it is true that europe needs its own financing, and it is possible to raise it through taxation. but that would mean a federal europe that should be driven through open debate, not through the gates of taxation. if we want to go in this direction, we must first reach an agreement between the member states to give up their tax revenues in favour of the european union, and only then can a self-financed common budget be created. european politicians must involve the public in such decisions, which they did not in this case.
in writing. − the report by the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources defines the parliament’s political priorities for the post-2013 multiannual financial framework. an important point in the report is the request for the introduction of one or several genuine own resources to replace the present gni-based system and to achieve an autonomous, fairer, more transparent, simple and equitable financing system. in order to avoid abusive use of accounting figures it is necessary to support this report. i voted in favour.
in writing. following the fukushima nuclear accident, eu member states agreed that the european union should conduct endurance tests on nuclear power plants and called for similar action worldwide. we still have no information on whether similar measures will be taken for reactors operating in other european countries outside the eu. the safety of reactors in these countries directly affects the safety of european citizens. our citizens have legitimate concerns about the union's ability to ensure the safety of new nuclear power plants that are being built or are planned to be built in the immediate vicinity of eu member states, such as in grodno (belarus) and the kaliningrad region of russia. neither russia nor belarus has carried out an environmental impact assessment of their planned nuclear power plants in line with generally accepted international law, as required by the espo convention, to which all eu member states are signatories. i believe that the construction of these nuclear power stations near the eu's borders could pose a threat not only to the member states of the european union but to the entire european continent. this must be a matter for the eu as a whole. the european commission must give it its due attention and make active efforts to achieve safety. we need to ensure that russia and belarus comply with international standards and cooperate with international experts at all stages of preparation and construction and operation of nuclear power plants.
in writing. − the southern sudan referendum took place on 9-15 january 2011, with an overwhelming majority voting to establish an independent state of south sudan. the agreement to conduct the referendum was concluded by the government of sudan and separatists from the south of the country in 2005 after 20 years of civil war. governmental authorities representing the north signed the comprehensive peace treaty with the stipulation that the question of self-determination for south sudan was to be resolved during the referendum. since the situation in the region has deteriorated significantly recently, with this resolution we appeal to the government of the south sudan to ensure democracy in the country and to demilitarise its territories. we also reiterate the importance of rendering humanitarian aid to sudan and south sudan and appeal to international creditors to alleviate the debt of sudan and south sudan. i would also add that it is necessary to strengthen monitoring, to deploy more experts, to render financial aid to the region and to arrange higher education in eu universities free of charge for talented youth. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and would like to stress that russia's energy policy towards the eu member states and eastern european countries will be a litmus test of whether and to what extent russia is truly able to move forward on the path of modernisation and democratisation. if the supply of energy resources is not used as a political instrument, if it is provided on the basis of equal, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions for all market participants, if russia chooses to implement the objectively existing interdependence in the energy sector through cooperation on the basis of specific, fair and legally binding principles, we can speak of a new stage in the development of a united europe. and of course we must not forget or ignore a number of important issues that still hinder the development of a full-fledged eu-russia relationship. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in the middle east.
in writing. − 9 june marked the opening of the 27th eu-russia summit in nizhny novgorod. the european delegation was led by the president of the european council, herman van rompuy and the president of european commission, jose manuel barroso. the russian delegation was led by dmitry medvedev. one of main topic of the two-day discussions was the russian embargo on eu vegetable imports as a result of the outbreak of the recent outbreak of a dangerous intestinal infection in europe. russia’s actions have caused a negative response in the eu. i very much share the concern of the russian government and i would like to see the latvian republic prohibiting imports of vegetables until the dangerous infection is eliminated completely. with this resolution, the european parliament appeals to the eu and russia to step up negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement and calls for russia to implement all previous signed agreements and to solve the problem of non-citizens in russia. i think that, firstly, europe has to solve the problem of non-citizens in the latvian republic and only then make recommendations on this issue. overall, i support the resolution and i voted in favour.
in writing. − parliament has received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread misleading business practices by business directory companies, affecting thousands of mostly small businesses in the european union, with a significant financial impact; parliament continues to receive petitions and complaints about business directory companies. the misleading business practices in question typically consist of luring businesses, as well as professionals and non-profit entities, into being listed in a business directory free of charge; signatories later discover that they have signed up to a contract with a fee. the business directory companies are often established in a different member state from that of their victims, making it difficult for the latter to seek protection and/or redress from national authorities. the european parliament urges the commission to speed up its activities with regard to revising and improving directive 2006/114/ec and other relevant legislation so as to put an end to the misleading practices of business directory companies as soon as possible, notably by specifically black-listing misleading practices by business directories. i fully agree and i voted in favour.
, written. – i was surprised by the wish of some political forces in the european parliament to support former leaders of ukraine both morally and politically. it is known that european people’s party has a cooperation agreement with the bloc of yuliya tymoshenko. it would be interesting to know whether there is in the agreement a point on legal protection and provision of lawyer services? today’s resolution looks more like appeal but not like a european parliament document. i consider it necessary to declare that nobody is eligible to interfere in judicial proceedings and prosecution activities. by evaluating the work of the prosecutor in advance, before the end of the investigation, we prevent justice from being implemented. the european parliament is not a lawyer’s office. in such cases we should wait until the investigation comes to an end. we should recommend to the accused to cooperate with investigating bodies. we do not have any right to put pressure on the judicial system of ukraine since it can be qualified as interference in internal affairs. i am categorically against resolution p7_ta-prov(2011)0272, because i consider it to be putting rough pressure on the government of ukraine.
thank you, chairman. a lot of work has been done, and yet the report is very general. the report clearly identifies a new direction for 'greening' agriculture. it could be a sort of lifeline for non-producing farmers to avoid agricultural production and receive area payments. i think that in the further work to implement this report, we must take account of what has been lost. the protein problem is gone, the question of the quality of imported foodstuffs is not included, the gmo question is not reflected, the question of land degradation is not sufficiently activated. the concepts of 'active farmer', 'new farmer', 'fair area payments' and 'family farms' are not yet clearly defined. unfortunately, this report will not provide answers to the problems and questions of many farmers. it must be completed in the future.
thank you, chairman. it has been observed that houses are usually designed by people with a college education, but they are usually built by people who have a good high school education. if a builder who is either unreasonable or dishonest still comes along and does not pour enough concrete into the foundation, the house will collapse. in the case of the eurozone, the foundations, the foundations of stability, were laid by the stability and growth pact. unfortunately, it has happened that several member states - like perhaps those sluggish or unskilled builders - have ignored this stability pact and have built excessive government debts, budget deficits. then, with the global economic crisis, this eurozone house began to crumble. if the eurozone were a house, then logically we would have to re-engineer and rebuild the foundations. in this case, we have this package of economic governance legislation that we have developed here, which we should accept as a strengthened basis so that in the future, in the next storm, the eurozone does not split. and if we want to think about what this kind of disintegration looks like, we just have to look at what's happening in greece. ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid the possibility of our house falling apart again in the future, and the solution is to adopt the legislative package on economic governance. thank you for your attention.
thank you, madam chairman. what do you think the word "virtue" means? in the dictionary, the word means "total distortion". political perversion is nothing more than lying and cynical voter fraud. a group of mps of political origin seems to have emerged in latvia. the fact is that during the elections to the latvian parliament, the members of the "saskaņas centre" promised their russian-speaking voters, who make up more than 40% of the population in latvia, to defend their native language. but last week the centre for reconciliation group voted to increase the penalties for those who do not use the national language in the private sector. it's like, you take one, you make the other. i think you'll agree that it's a perversion. it is possible that latvia will become the birthplace of a new political movement, the centre of opposition. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the european parliament – having regard to the council’s recommendation of 16 june 2011 (10057/2011), having regard to rule 109 of its rules of procedure, having regard to the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (a7-0229/2011), whereas by letter of 20 may 2011 the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of mario draghi as president of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years with effect from 1 november 2011, whereas parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs then proceeded to evaluate the credentials of the nominee, in particular in view of the requirements laid down in the second subparagraph of article 283(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and in the light of the need for full independence of the european central bank pursuant to article 130 tfeu, and whereas in carrying out that evaluation, the committee received a curriculum vitae from the candidate as well as his replies to the written questionnaire that was sent out to him – delivers a favourable opinion on the council recommendation to appoint mario draghi as president of the european central bank. i am against his appointment.
in writing. − it is known that the mobilisation of the adjustment fund concerns 2834 redundancies (all targeted for assistance) in the primary enterprise general motors belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector in the region of antwerp, during the four-month reference period from 14 june to 14 october 2010. thus, redundant employees will get assistance as personalised measures supported by the european globalisation adjustment fund, which will mobilise eur 9.59 million for these measures. i am not against mobilisation of financial assistance for redundant belgian workers. but i think that the rules for application of the fund should be changed in order to make the assistance available for less developed member states of the european union.
in writing. − every rule of procedure of the european parliament should seek three objectives: make the provision more readily understandable and therefore easier to use; lay down new conditions governing the application of the procedure; determine the scope of the procedure. i absolutely agree with the rapporteur.
in writing. − the committee on legal affairs, having examined the reasons for and against waiving the member’s immunity, recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of adrian severin, while considering that, until a final sentence is passed, the member should be immune from any form of detention or remand or any other measure which prevents that member from performing the duties proper to the mandate. i agree with such option recommended by the committee on legal affairs. however, as a matter of principle i am against the procedure of waiving immunity.
in writing. − fishing by european vessels in seychelles is governed by a protocol covering the period from 18 january 2005 to 17 january 2011. seychelles has a 1 374 000 km² exclusive economic zone for a land area of 453 km². this archipelago of 115 islands has an estimated population of 80 000, 88% of whom live on the island of mahé, whose capital is victoria, the country’s main port. seychelles’ economy relies essentially on tourism and fisheries. its fishing industry, centred around canning, accounts for 15% of its gdp and 17% of the working population. an assessment of the agreement shows that it is relevant in that it helps to maintain the presence of eu fleets in the region while contributing to local job creation. the implementation of the protocol has proved effective by providing seychelles with resources to develop a responsible fishing industry. the agreement is making a substantial contribution to the stabilisation of the european canned tuna market. the new protocol will stay in force from 2011 till 2014 and is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement aiming at strengthening the cooperation between the european union and the republic of seychelles.
in writing. − the negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements is in line with the eu’s general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, including the open-sea fleet, as also with the development of relations with third countries in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors. in this context, on 23 july 2007 the european council adopted regulation (ec) no 894/2007 on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the democratic republic of são tomé and principe and the european community. this agreement, which is applicable for periods of four years, tacitly renewable unless either party rescinds it, entailed the repeal and replacement of the first agreement between the ec and são tomé and principe, concluded in 1984. the new protocol was signed on 13 may 2011 and the request for consent was forwarded to parliament by the council on the same day. i absolutely agree with the rapporteur.
in writing. − it is known that the protocol is aimed at ensuring that trade between both parties develops smoothly within a high level of customs security and that it includes a set of rules to ensure that the agreement and the eu acquis remain in alignment. it is a very important initiative.
in writing. − this agreement is the most ambitious air transport agreement between the eu and an important global partner. the agreement will not only make the canadian and european markets more competitive, it will also make them safer as regulators and enforcement authorities are moving closer to cooperation in all matters of certification, inspections and enforcement, to ensure the highest level of safety for passengers and cargo flights. the agreement represents an important step forward in terms of establishing international standards for civil aviation safety and should serve as a starting point for future negotiations with other significant producers of aircraft and equipment. i support silvia-adriana ticau.
in writing. − i am voting today for the consumer rights directive because i believe it will simplify and improve the existing rules on consumer protection. for several months, meps from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have been trying to agree with the council on important aspects of this regulation, in order to better protect consumers and not to make businessmen happy with unnecessarily strict rules that restrict business activity and increase bureaucracy. we have now achieved a balanced result that is both consumer- and business-friendly. but i think we can't stop there. after consulting consumer organisations and business representatives, i have come to the conclusion that we need to advocate for even greater harmonisation of consumer rights at the european union level. there are currently significant differences, which hamper the entry of operators into markets in other member states with higher standards. i think latvia is a good example in consumer protection, because we have some of the highest standards, but they are proportionate and do not limit the business environment with bureaucratic requirements.
in writing. − today's resolution is a step in the right direction to make the reformed cap fairer and more effective. we have made considerable progress on direct payments, stressing the need to set appropriate minimum and maximum levels of support, as a percentage of the eu average, that farmers in each member state will be able to receive. this will help to change the present absurd and unfair situation where the aid amounts vary up to 6 times, thus placing farmers in several member states in unequal situations and distorting competition between european farmers. i would like to stress that the transitional period should be as short as possible and i believe that the member states with the lowest direct payments to farmers should start the process of equalisation as early as 2014. a transition period that would last until 2020 would mean that a whole generation of farmers would still be forced to work in unequal competitive conditions. however, it should be noted that the ep still has a lot of work to do, as there are issues whose solution was indicated in the alberta desa report in general terms, as the members' views on the solution of the problem in question were different or even diametrically opposed.
chairman! we're all used to choices. we have a choice when we buy soap, a choice when we buy tvs, a choice when we buy cell phone service. and that choice gives us as consumers the lowest possible prices because that's competition. but there is one area where we often lack this competition, this choice in europe. it's energy electricity and gas. why is this not an option for many consumers? because we lack infrastructure in europe, we lack connectivity, so that we have this kind of market, so that consumers have this kind of choice. with this report, the european parliament makes it clear that european citizens and consumers must have a choice not only in soaps but also in the energy market electricity and gas. by creating this infrastructure, we will provide consumers with choice and the lowest possible prices. thank you for your attention.
in writing. i fully support the call in the regulation for member states to restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory, as i believe that we currently lack sufficient long-term, scientifically based evidence on the environmental and human health effects of gmos. i'm all for scientific progress and new ideas, but i think we know too little about gm crops to start growing them widely and using them in food. we have had a very lively debate in the committee on agriculture on the cultivation of gmos in the eu and the right of member states to set limits on their territory. we have not been able to agree and have understood that the best solution is to allow each member state to decide for itself whether to allow the cultivation of gmos. i am convinced that this is the right decision, because on such a sensitive issue for society it would not be right to impose eu decisions on the member states. this would only create a negative image of the european union and foster a scepticism of the euro. finally, i would like to add that gmos are not a solution to world hunger or a magic trick to make food cheaper and more accessible to people. i would therefore like to invite my colleagues to discuss how to increase the availability of organic food. sadly, today only a small fraction of society has the financial means to buy organic food, which is healthier and more environmentally friendly.
in writing. − this will be the fifth mobilisation of european globalisation adjustment fund in 2011. a total of eur 14 181 901 will be mobilised for denmark, which requested assistance concerning 1356 redundancies (950 of them targeted for assistance) in the enterprise odense steel shipyard, operating in the shipyard sector in the region of southern denmark during the four-month reference period from 13 april to 31 july 2010. i voted in favour of barbara matera’s report. however, i wish to point out that certain changes are required in the way that the european globalisation adjustment fund works, specifically in relation to the allocation of funding, since small countries such as latvia and estonia cannot make use of the opportunities the fund offers because the criteria for allocation are such that only large countries, and thus large companies, can benefit from it.
in writing. − following heavy floods in eastern europe in summer and autumn 2010, the czech, croatian and slovenian authorities applied for financial assistance from the eu solidarity fund. the commission proposed mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to a total amount of eur 19.54 million. this will be the second mobilisation of the solidarity fund in 2011. i fully support the allocation of funding to the countries that have suffered but i am concerned by the fact that latvia is not receiving more assistance from the eu. in winter 2010-2011 the latgale region of latvia suffered power cuts which inflicted heavy damage. funding ought to be allocated for measures to prevent calamities of this nature.
in writing. − the total amount for aid proposed in draft amending budget (dab) 2/2011 is eur 19 546 647. the council has adopted dab 2/2011 as regards commitment appropriations, but has decided to redeploy payment appropriations for the requested amount from three budget items: budget item 04 02 01 (completion of esf/objective 1, 2000-2006); budget item 04 02 06 (completion of esf/objective 3, 2000-2006); and budget item 22 02 07 01 (regional and horizontal programmes under ipa). the rapporteur considers this redeployment inappropriate and proposes redeployment under implemented appropriation from ‘european economic recovery plan – energy networks’ to finance the needs arising from the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund; to draw upon the negative reserve adopted in amending budget no 1/2011; and to reinforce payment appropriation for the egf. i fully agree with the rapporteur. the adopted budget should remain unchanged. we cannot afford to jump from item to item, as such an approach could lead to financial anarchy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) exists to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, helping them to find another job as quickly as possible. this constitutes the fourth mobilisation of the fund in 2011. the application, from denmark, relates to 1650 redundancies that occurred at lm glasfiber, a wind turbine manufacturing company, in early 2010. a total of 825 workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by eur 6.24 million in egf funding. i consider it absolutely immoral that we should be in the position of paying money following redundancies in the wind turbine manufacturing industry. instead of allowing companies to close and workers to be made redundant, we must subsidise this industry to make wind turbines affordable for more eu buyers. i voted against the proposal.
in writing. − i am not confident that the aim of the proposed new agency is to ensure the smooth operability and data security of schengen information system ii, vis (the visa information system) and eurodac (the biometric database of asylum seekers) while at the same time ensuring an appropriate economy of scale in the eu’s management of the three systems in both budgetary and human resources terms. there is no clear and understandable provision for the control and interaction of all three systems. the budget has been already adopted and there are no grounds for spending the funds that this proposal requires. there is a lack of transparency and targets and there is no plan of work. therefore, i have abstained.
in writing. − the purpose of the proposed council decision is to authorise france to apply exemptions from or reductions in the tax known as ‘dock dues’ to certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments (doms). the annex to the decision contains a list of products to which tax exemptions and reductions may be applied. the reasons for adopting specific measures include isolation, raw material and energy dependence, the obligation to build up stocks, the small size of local markets and the low level of export activity. the measures are thus designed to strengthen local industry by making it more competitive – but why should this apply specifically in france? could it be because that country has a dominant position in the eu and here in parliament? i think it makes sense to consider such alleviating measures for all eu member states. i abstained.
in writing. − the rapporteur suggests that a series of measures be taken to improve public awareness of the 112 number. i fully support the rapporteur but i would like clarification on precisely what measures should be taken.
in writing. − i would like to reiterate that the most important task for european politicians today is to promote economic growth and the recovery of member states from recession. it should be recognised that protectionism is not a means of achieving economic growth, as it will hamper job creation and the free movement of goods between member states. protectionism is a short-term measure that may bring short-term improvement and public support, but in the long run it creates new, even more serious economic problems. the report focuses on the retail sector, which is very important to the european economy, employing some 20 million people and accounting for 4.2% of the european economy. unfortunately, this sector has been hit hard by the economic crisis, with a negative impact on living standards and incomes. this is why i support the proposals in the report to improve the work of companies in the retail sector, which will contribute to economic growth and job creation. the report focuses on five themes, of which the most important to me are promoting competitiveness and opening up national markets to crossborder trade. i support the call to improve existing legislation and to closely monitor how member states implement it in their legislation. we have the power to make the changes needed to make europe economically stronger.
in writing. − this report deals with the role of the retail market within the single market and stresses the need to develop a comprehensive european action plan for the retail sector in order to foster competitiveness, growth and jobs, to remove obstacles to the free movement of goods and services, and to guarantee access for business and consumers. the report also urges amendments aimed at strengthening consumer rights in terms of access to information, safeguarding the role of local shops, improving working conditions and combating the black economy. i am especially interested in a set of measures to combat the black economy. we must not only announce measures and actions: we must actually take them.
in writing. − this legislative report concerns amendment of the existing regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 (the cpc regulation) on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws. the aim of the current proposal is to update the contents of the annex to the cpc regulation to reflect recent legislative developments in the field of consumer protection. this is a very reasonable and timely report and the topic is important.
in writing. − the draft regulation approved by the committee on economic affairs lays down uniform requirements for derivative contracts, specific provisions to improve transparency and risk management in the over-the-counter derivatives market, and uniform requirements for the performance of the activities of central clearing counterparties and trade repositories. taking into account the specificity of the issue, specific targets need to be formulated in more comprehensible language. effective steps towards public control of over-the-counter derivatives will afford an opportunity to adopt an understandable and transparent programme. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the aim of the commission proposal is to ensure appropriate supplementary supervision of financial groups in order to guarantee the same level of control as for insurance companies and financial companies. this new proposal aims to take into account the specific potential risks arising from financial conglomerates: risk of contagion, management complexity, conflict of interest. to that end, the proposed directive reinforces cooperation among the various authorities responsible, notably with a view to developing convergence of supervisory practices. what is more, supervisory institutions should be responsible for the results of hearings and examinations: it is necessary to minimise the risk of bias in examinations and conclusions. supervision should be objective and transparent, for only then will the work of the supervisory bodies be effective.
in writing. − the commission's proposal to regulate short-selling, published in september 2010, is the result of the need to harmonise the relevant national authorities' approach to limiting short-selling practices and, most importantly, to regulate the market in credit default swaps (cds), particularly on the sovereign debt of member states. i consider short-selling to be a hidden form of fraud. securities should be guaranteed by the bank and its assets. otherwise, many con-artists could spread across the eu, and the 2009-2010 crisis could happen again. i abstained from voting.
in writing. − the main achievement of the vote in the committee on economic affairs is to ensure that private investors will be better protected against fraudulent and defaulting investment firms, and be eligible for at least eur 100 000 in compensation – double the sum initially proposed by the commission. the directive does not compensate investors for ‘investment risk’ and operates only as a last-resort safety net for investment firms’ clients should other important safeguards fail. claims under the directive typically arise if there has been fraud or other administrative malpractice within a firm, or as the result of a firm’s inability – through error, negligence or problems in its systems and controls – to meet obligations towards clients’ assets. lastly, the text would enhance transparency in three ways. firstly, it imposes new reporting requirements on member states, so as to provide the commission and esma with more information on their national schemes and the nature of the risks being covered. secondly, it requires investment firms to inform investors through their websites about compensation coverage and how to apply for compensation. and thirdly, it requires investment firms to state clearly the cost to each investor of the firm’s participation in a compensation scheme. i am in favour.
in writing. − i did not support the report on the analysis of the various options for achieving a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of more than 20% and the analysis of the risks of exceeding carbon emissions, as i believe that this would impose a disproportionate burden on european businesses at a time when the economic recovery is just beginning. the european union has already agreed to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. this objective is set and a clear vision is given of how it will be achieved. there is no point in changing this target halfway. greater reductions in emissions will undoubtedly be good for the environment and necessary, but any steps in this direction must be tailored to balance the interests of all parties involved. moreover, they must not undermine the competitiveness of european union enterprises on a global scale, so that enterprises do not relocate their production facilities outside europe and thus lose jobs.
in writing. − the threat to humanity posed by climate change is not decreasing. the impact of a 2°c warming is considerably worse than previously thought. although it is not possible to blame extreme weather events on global warming, it seems very likely that climate change exacerbates the frequency and intensity of extremes. in this light, the rapporteur calls for the commission to come forward with proposals to increase, as soon as possible, europe's climate ambition to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. i absolutely agree with bas eickhout. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the rapporteur regards certain key areas of the europe 2020 strategy (namely reducing the rate of early school-leaving, raising levels of final examination results, getting more people into employment, reducing poverty, and increasing environmental investment by local authorities) as areas for which national or even regional/local policy-makers should bear primary responsibility. cohesion policy should not act as a catalyst for a thorough europeanisation of social or environmental policy here, for that would massively overburden its resources. rather, there should be a closer focus on the regional contribution to european policies (environmental protection, climate change, energy, transport infrastructure, etc.), on stimuli to growth and innovation (smes joining international networks, etc.), on model social projects (integrated development planning, health, demography, etc.) and particularly, under all these headings, on compensatory measures for disadvantaged regions. i would suggest to the rapporteur that the biggest threat to the eu is posed by demography. if the eu does not stimulate demographic processes, then by 2030 its population will have declined by 50 million, and 50% of that population will consist of elderly people. i voted in favour.
in writing. − eu budget support is the transfer of financial resources to the treasury of a partner country. the eu only provides budget support to developing countries which have a well-defined national policy, a stable macroeconomic framework and a credible programme to improve public financial management. all disbursements are conditional on continued adherence to these criteria. the commission wants to increase budget support to 50% of eu development cooperation. the current level is 25% of eu development aid. i am not fully confident in financial support for developing countries while there is no complete stability within the eu, especially given that we are talking about an increase. first of all, we should set our own house in order, and only then can we support others. i abstained from voting.
in writing. − this report concerns the establishment of a common european energy network which will provide a safe flow of energy and will put to an end to the existence of ‘energy islands’. the clear goals presented in the report are to: 1. increase market integration, competition and market liquidity and reduce market concentration; 2. put an end to energy islands; 3. reduce network losses, preventing transmission bottlenecks – including internal projects as long as they contribute to the development of cross-border interconnections – and relieve cross-border transmission; 4. resolve single-supplier dependency; 5. diversify transit routes and the origin of resources; and 6. integrate renewable energy to the grid and increase the use of renewable energy sources by reducing renewable-energy curtailment.
in writing. − the key proposal in this report is the establishment of a high-level multi-stakeholder working group mandated to identify and find solutions to problems confronting ssgi providers and users. according to the report, a series of countries assumed the role of service providers while, in fact, they do not meet their responsibilities. besides creating a working group, it is necessary to compile a list of member states which, in exchange for a social guarantee, cynically deceive their citizens.
in writing. − the report aims to look at how we can provide a high-impact eu development policy with best value for money to achieve the millennium development goals, and how we can facilitate inclusive growth in developing countries. the report also pays particular attention to how we can achieve durable results in the area of agriculture and food security. the report is too blurred and imprecise. it is more like a declaration of assorted targets. i did not completely understand its point and targets. i therefore abstained.
thank you, mr president. i would also like to begin by thanking my colleague inés ayala sender and also several presidencies for finding this compromise. the negotiations were of course difficult because of this changed legal basis, which required a unanimous decision by the council and which, on the other hand, ended with three countries outside this legislation. it is positive that the new directive will finally put an end to the unfortunate practice of drivers who commit serious road traffic offences in other eu countries actually not being punished or being punished very rarely. and perhaps two important aspects of the future should be mentioned. firstly, it is now up to the member states to ensure that this directive has meaning and results, and we expect the member states' authorities to act, using data exchange systems, not only to identify and find offenders but also to effectively punish them. and with regard to the protection of personal data, parliament had serious concerns about whether this exchange would be confidential and serve only to find and punish the offender and not serve any other purpose. but i am optimistic that this will not happen in the member states of the institutions concerned. finally, as the commissioner has already said, i would be very sorry if, for some reason, i did not vote for this vote tomorrow at the very last moment. i hope not. thank you.
first of all, i'd like to thank wolf klinz and the other colleagues for their work on the committee. the report's compromise summary is short: more europe will cure us all. but will he recover? if we think that a larger eu budget and smaller national budgets, a common immigration policy or european taxes will be the answer, we are wrong. here's an example of three eurozone countries being bailed out, where all the burden of these three countries is placed on the people and governments of these countries, with no interest at all on the commercial banks, pension funds, insurance companies of the lending countries of the european union, even though they would have to bear some of the losses of these investments. what will it all end up doing in these three countries? the same thing happened in latvia, because at the time when latvia had the biggest gdp decline, the country that lent the most to latvian investments had the biggest gdp growth in the european union. let us learn from experience.
when i was a child, i once competed in a running contest with two friends and won. the first friend found all sorts of reasons why he lost his eyesight in the sun, why his legs were slipping, and so on. the other friend admitted that he lost because he ran too slowly. this report from the cris committee is a little bit like my first friend, which finds all sorts of culprits in our misery -- the rating agencies, the federal budget deficit, and so on. but in reality our problems are quite simple and only two: lack of competition at european level and excessive budget deficits. if we overcome the lack of competition by strengthening the single market and if we solve the excessive budget deficits of the member states, then we can solve the problems of europe.
the report rightly points out that banks and financial speculators are among the culprits of the financial and economic crisis. financial controls and banking supervision need to be strengthened. the ruling elites in latvia also see a way out of the crisis in me, by raising taxes at the expense of the population and worsening the social situation in the member states, while the perpetrators of the crisis - the banks and speculators - continue to receive income from speculative transactions, which should be taxed with the highest progressive tax. the european social model must be based on the principles of social guarantees, avoiding reductions in wages, pensions and benefits or even redundancies and dismissals.
in writing. − the purpose of the list of travel documents is twofold: on the one hand it allows border control authorities to verify whether a given travel document is recognised for the purpose of crossing the external borders as set out in article 5(1)(a) of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). on the other hand it allows consular staff to verify whether member states recognise a given travel document for the purpose of affixing the visa sticker. the purpose of this decision is to create legal certainty with regard to the list of travel documents. lastly, i would like to address a question to the member states. why do latvia and lithuania not allow people holding italian or french visas to cross their borders? such cases have been known to take place. i voted ‘in favour’, but the report should be improved.
in writing. − taking into account the inequality of the broadband market throughout europe and the disappointing absorption capacity in this area, mrs tzavela pointed out that ‘basic broadband’ of at least 2 mbps by 2013 in all 27 member states, including 100% coverage, is a realistic goal. the ultimate goal for 2020 is 30 mbps with 100% european coverage, and for 50% or more of european households to have subscriptions above 100 mbps. another important point of this paper includes providing incentives to investors for rural and remote areas, as well as islands. furthermore, while fibre optics will be the main platform capable of providing 100 mbps, the document welcomes and promotes the use of complementary technologies such as fixed and mobile wireless, as well as satellite. unfortunately, the rapporteur is lobbying only one direction – the internet. providers are interested in that. such a project is necessary but with some stipulations and red lines. in case of european investments, radio, tv and the press will lose the ability to compete, and that will result in the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs and bankruptcies within the mass media. therefore, during the transitional period, the eu should draft a plan of investments in traditional mass media, prohibit use of the internet for piracy and prevent dishonest competition. i abstained.
in writing. − under the lisbon treaty, for the multiannual financial framework to be adopted, the council must vote unanimously in favour of it following its adoption in the european parliament by a majority of votes. in the report, the european parliament disagrees with amendments to the current multiannual financial framework 2007-2013. i absolutely agree with that and i voted ‘in favour’ of the report.
in writing. − in 2005 and 2010 the commission adopted two roadmaps. since then, the incidence of cases of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy has continued to decline. in general, the rapporteur welcomes the commission’s proposals to revise certain provisions of current tse legislation, but i also believe that strict measures should be applied to producers of food made from domestic animals. insurance against the risk of disease in animals should also be obligatory, thus making the responsibility of producers more complete.
in writing. − the new generation security scanners appear to offer a suitable means of improving security in eu air transport. they provide added value in relation to the effectiveness of security screening at eu airports and are proportional to the risk that is being averted.
in writing. − strengthening the role of women in the management of companies is not only a question of ethics and equality, it is also essential for economic growth and a competitive internal market. the report on ‘women and business leadership’ intends to increase women’s access to top jobs. the european parliament requires companies to take measures to increase women’s presence on boards of directors. if no significant improvement is made, parliament intends to ask the european commission to propose strict legislation. companies do not hire men or women, they hire talents. women in italy, greece and spain are particularly vulnerable to gender discrimination. we should not only declare our position on that problem but also take steps to prevent discrimination in specific countries. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − it is necessary to take measures to promote innovation, job creation and investment in r&d. this will boost european competency and provide sustainable growth. the proposed measures address such issues as youth unemployment, social cohesion, the sovereign debt crisis, slow growth, enhanced cooperation in the area of foreign policy, better coordination of national tax policies, the establishment of a corporate tax base and stimulation of fiscal discipline. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. – in view of the lively and emotional debate on the resolution on the preparations for the russian state duma elections in december 2011, i wish to state that amendments to, and the regulation of, electoral laws should not favour specific parties or groups of entrepreneurs which are supported by specific members of the european parliament. it looks as though financial oligarchic groups are lobbying with the intention of reshaping the existing political and economic balance in the russian federation, rather than changing the legal situation. in hearings and discussions, we should hear not only the opinion of opposition representatives from outside parliament, but also official russian opinion. i would like to emphasise that many of the former high-ranking russian officials who chose to leave the so-called political elite did not make any changes to the legislation and constitution of the russian federation when they had the chance. their current appeals for action therefore seem strange. we should cooperate with the russian federation on elections and not dictate conditions, since dictating will not have any effect.
madam president, in the green/efa group we also believe that free movement of people within the schengen area has been one of the biggest achievements of european integration. therefore only real threats could be a reason for the reintroduction of border checks, as a last resort. such threats must be immediate, not merely hypothetical. as regards the procedure, it should be european in nature. by the schengen borders code the eu has exercised its competence concerning the reintroduction of border checks. this means that the member states cannot legislate on it any more. also we deplore the fact that the current procedure is de facto unilateral; this matter is already within the framework of eu law, not national law. therefore, commissioner, we suggest that the commission takes one step further and proposes a mechanism whereby the european union institutions will decide on the reintroduction of border checks.
in writing. − the report proposes to make 2012 the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the european year of active ageing will help people to face the challenges of ageing. active ageing will allow elderly people to stay in work and share their experience, to continue playing an active role in society and to live lives which are as healthy, independent and interesting as possible. so, as he has nothing else to come up with, mr kastler has generated a topic for an individual publicity move. i abstained from voting since i do not understand the point and aim of this ‘work’.
in writing. − the attitude of the eu towards its eastern and mediterranean neighbours has often neglected dialogue with civil society, striving to provide stability but not to promote human rights. this resolution calls for the governments of syria, bahrain and yemen to respect their international commitment to observe human rights and fundamental freedoms, and calls for an end to the extraordinary situation, the release of all prisoners of conscience and human rights defenders, the strengthening of corruption prevention measures and the provision of access to communication. i am, of course, in favour. however, i would like to ask those who have ‘unexpectedly’ become concerned about the situation in these countries: where were you before? bearing in mind the recommendation of the european parliament, i can imagine what will happen when half-literate people are taught democracy without a transitional period! it is necessary to approach the end of civil conflict in these countries in a serious, pragmatic and discreet manner. a long-term transitional programme is necessary.
in writing. − the report proposes a more coherent dialogue on the partnership agreement. it also proposes to establish a forum, bringing together national parliaments and the european parliament, to consider foreign policy issues, and particularly sensitive subjects such as human rights and democracy. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament is therefore of the opinion that any new, additional exemptions from the current rules, such as new grounds for reintroducing border controls on an ‘exceptional’ basis, would definitely not reinforce the schengen system. in order to exclude such cases of loose interpretation of schengen rules, additional provisions should be made. an agreement is effective when parties cannot retreat from it. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i call on the commission and the council to find a solution to the problem of financing food packages, since this programme provides food for millions of people across europe. i would remind you that according to the commission, some 43 million people in the european union are at risk of food shortages. a significant proportion of these people rely on food packages prepared by the european union, which play an important role in people's lives, feeding not only adults but also children. it is in times of economic crisis that we must support the weakest and most vulnerable in society. latvia will receive about 140 000 food parcels this year, but if things continue as they are, the amount of funding allocated to food parcels in 2012 will be about 10 times less than what is needed. we must not allow this to happen, because it is contrary to the european values which have brought prosperity to a large part of the european population. reducing poverty and social exclusion is one of the five priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. if we fail to find solutions to maintain the funding of the programme, poverty and deprivation will increase. we can't let that happen.
in writing. − the committee on legal affairs unanimously adopted the report recommending waiving hans peter martin’s immunity in order to enable the austrian authorities to conduct investigations for alleged misappropriation of party funding. i did not support this initiative since i think that if there is immunity it should be waived only after a member’s mandate has expired.
in writing. − i have taken into account the rapporteur’s suggestions to (1) strengthen the provisions on fundamental human rights; (2) merge the articles providing for the setting up of frontex joint support teams and rapid border intervention teams into one article providing for an eu border guard system which will consist of a pool of national border guards that can be tapped by the agency for the purposes of its joint operations, rapid border intervention missions and pilot projects; this will streamline the provisions of the regulation, increase transparency, avoid duplication and confusion of roles and most importantly give a clearer european identity to the agency’s missions; (3) support the commission’s proposal to require member state to participate in the eu border guard system; (4) tighten the timeframes within which rapid border intervention missions should be deployed; and (5) grant the agency the power to process personal data in order to enable it to play a greater role in combating cross-border crime and irregular migration. i agree with the rapporteur and i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − technological progress in today’s world means that there is a need to update regularly the list of controlled items. the last update of annex i of the regulation occurred on the occasion of the adoption of the regulation on 5 may 2009. i absolutely agree with that, but i think that there should be defined measures taken and an organised mechanism for control over updates established and made more transparent.
in writing. − report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on repealing certain obsolete council acts in the field of the common agricultural policy. it is high time we have these measures and i even would suggest making some additions to this report. disproportional quotas and requirements do not stimulate the production of agricultural products. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − a number of acts which were adopted over the last decades have exhausted all their effects, but remain technically in force. they have become obsolete because of their temporary character or because their content has been incorporated in successive acts. well, finally functionaries from european commission have woken up. how long did it take to ask them to work? moreira did a great job! i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the directive was based on the principle of preventive actions. environmental protection measures should be taken in advance and should be aimed at elimination of the source. any economic project, either public or private, which may affect the environment, for example the construction of roads or the beginning of the functioning of a metal production shop should respectively undergo ecological assessment. in the document serious attention is paid to distribution of ecologically important information and the opinion of all stakeholders should be taken into account. in general the report is useful and reasonable.
in writing. − this report deals with the legal framework for one of the five services that will be offered by the galileo system, public regulated services (prs) restricted to government-authorised users, for sensitive applications which require a high level of service continuity. it defines the modalities according to which member states and other participants will have access to the prs provided by galileo. i hope this service will be affordable to the population of eu in the matter of price. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − as has become known, the agreement has been negotiated between consumers and producers to promote the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber and to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber producing forests. the proposal for a council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european community, and provisional application of the international tropical timber agreement, 2006 (itta, 2006) is a re-consultation on a procedure that had already been referred to parliament in 2007. the parliament adopted a resolution tabled by the committee on international trade that explains why parliament chose not to adopt the draft report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the itta. the ep was not given the right to give formal consent to this agreement. therefore, in my opinion, the new referral is the result of the parliament’s insistence and is in line with the new rules of the lisbon treaty regarding giving consent to international agreements.
in writing. − the agreement between the european community and switzerland on trade in agricultural products entered into force on 1 june 2002. article 12 of the agricultural agreement provides that the agricultural agreement may be reviewed at the request of either party. a joint declaration on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of agricultural products and foodstuffs has been attached to the final act of the agricultural agreement covered by this report. i abstained.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to approve, on behalf of the european union, the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the kingdom of norway concerning additional trade preferences in agricultural products. no amendments have been submitted in the committee on international trade. i think these issues should be discussed more broadly. i abstained.
in writing. − the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products (agricultural agreement) has been extended to the principality of liechtenstein. the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs has amended the agricultural agreement by adding annex 12. therefore, the additional agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein also needs to be amended so that the protection of geographical indications also applies to liechtenstein. it is clear, but why cannot all reports on agricultural products be united into one? are additional rapporteurs necessary? i voted ‘against’.
in writing. − the convention will establish the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), whose mission will be to manage and conserve non-highly-migratory species, and to protect biodiversity in the high seas areas of the south pacific, in a manner consistent with international law. if it becomes a useful paper ratified only by three countries. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − this agreement follows on from the main achievement of a ‘horizontal’ air services agreement (adopted in plenary in february 2011) removing nationality restrictions in the existing bilateral agreements between member states and brazil, benefiting the whole eu airline industry. it is very important for brazil and, if the eu will not put in order its own air transportation, for example the hazardous latvian company airbaltic, then this report is above price. i am ‘in favour’.
in writing. − it has become known that the report intends to recommend the consent of the ep – according to the lisbon treaty – to the conclusion of the agreement between the eu, iceland and norway on procedures for the surrender of persons. the agreement applies the surrender procedure defined in the european arrest warrant to iceland and norway, thus simplifying extradition procedures between the eu and these two third countries that have acceded to part of the schengen acquis. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − i think the report is very useful because it approves the commission’s proposal to set up a jti to deal with fuel cells and hydrogen. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − while the role played by banks, hedge funds, rating agencies, supervisors or central banks has been analysed in depth, limited attention has been given to how the audit function could be enhanced in order to contribute to increased financial stability. the fact that numerous banks revealed huge losses from 2007 to 2009 on the positions they had held both on and off balance sheet raised not only the question of how auditors could give clean audit reports to their clients for those periods but also about the suitability and adequacy of the current legislative framework. the commission is asked to draw up a list of conditions under which non-audit services would be deemed incompatible with audit services that an audit firm provides to a customer, with a view to avoiding conflicts of interest. i fully agree and i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − it is a well-known fact that age discrimination against women over 50 is reported much more frequently than in other age groups. retirement is the main reason for older men to be outside the labour market but for women family responsibilities are the most important issue. older women represent an important contribution to society in a variety of ways: they help their children and their grandchildren and work as volunteers. multiple discrimination affects older women, who are not only discriminated against on the basis of their age, gender and health status but also, in the current crisis, because of future budget cuts. i am confident that it is necessary to help women to remain on the labour market and to make provision in welfare systems, to gender assess pension systems and health care and look into gender-related diseases. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the state of play concerning implementation highlights uneven results. this report emphasises the need to further promote extrajudicial resolution of disputes via national awareness programmes, the establishment of common standards of access to the profession of mediator and financial incentives, and gives an account of best practices of member states that go beyond the directive’s requirements. i agree and i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report is one of the dozens of files concerning the alignment of the existing agriculture legislation on the lisbon treaty. the only thing which is left to do is to align compensations for utilised lands. in that case the report will be useful.
in writing. − transposal into eu law gives export credit applications an extra margin of security against challenges facing the wto. the key amendments by parliament to the commission’s proposal were on transparency, on reporting and on coherence of policies. i supported the initiative.
in writing. − a strong focus is now placed on our own possibilities within the eu, by stepping up our own exploration and production (including research into better technologies) where possible, and also recycling, reusing and reopening old landfill sites to extract valuable scrap metal and raw materials, thereby reducing reliance on imports. i absolutely agree with that.
in writing. − i think that the creation of a regional fisheries management organization (rfmo) should also be examined. institutionalised coordination could provide tangible results to protect the livelihood of fishermen, ensure economic development in coastal areas, and protect the ecological balance and fish resources in the basin. this should apply not only to eu member states, but also to all other black sea countries. therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − after the major british petroleum oil spill (deepwater horizon) in the us last year, the eu should react in the best way possible to ensure there is no such incident affecting eu waters. i voted in favour.
in writing. − women’s entrepreneurship is a type of long endeavour that requires time to change structures and attitudes. 169 amendments and 28 compromises were tabled to the report. all compromises were carried and the rest of the report almost entirely in line with the s&d proposals and therefore i voted in favour of this initiative.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. one of our main objectives in the energy market is to maintain price stability for our consumers. we know that in the general stock market it is a criminal offence to use inside information to manipulate prices and make a profit at the expense of others. it's a criminal offense. with the introduction of this regulation, we will introduce a ban on the energy market similar to that on the stock market, namely that large energy producers will no longer be able to use inside information to manipulate prices to the detriment of consumers. the beneficiaries of this regulation on the energy market are our consumers, because by preventing price manipulation we achieve price stability, which is one of our objectives. i therefore strongly urge you to support the introduction of this regulation in the energy market. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the report covers the austrian application of the globalisation adjustment fund which relates to 167 redundancies that occurred in at&s, a leading multinational company, specialised in the manufacturing of printed circuit boards for mobile phones, during the last quarter of 2009. seventy-four redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by egaf funding for a total of eur 1.22 million.
in writing. − the report covers the austrian application of the globalisation adjustment fund which relates to 1180 redundancies that occurred in different undertakings specialised in the manufacturing of basic metals in two austrian regions in 2009. three hundred and fifty-six redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by egaf funding for a total of eur 8.28 million. the application is not transparent and i abstained.
in writing. − i disagree that the green light is given for the mobilisation of eur 0.61 million to cover various activities to be carried out by the ec services in 2011, such as information campaign and seminars on the european globalisation fund, evaluation and monitoring of the european globalisation fund, setting up of standardised procedures for european globalisation fund applications. i voted against, because i think it is not proper to spend such significant means on officials.
in writing. − the regulation aims to prohibit market manipulation and insider trading in the eu’s energy markets and defines them and puts in place monitoring mechanisms and penalties to dissuade such forms of market abuse. acer (agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators) is given a strong role to play. in latvia strong violations related to distribution of quotes on wind generators have led to a full stop in implementing such projects. the european commissioner from latvia had the straightest relation to the machination. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission deals with an important number of infringement cases. to better address the citizens’ and businesses’ questions concerning the application of eu law, the commission launched the eu pilot project. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i agree that common rules for classification of documents and a broader redefinition of a document must be clarified in the legislative review. i also support the need to ensure a ‘space to think’ without undermining transparency or the encouragement of free thinking within the agencies and the institutions as well as an appropriate equilibrium between transparency and data protection. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the conclusions that can be drawn from the first approval process, in collaboration with the commission, suggest that further modifications are both necessary and desirable. therefore i would like to remind the commission of the need to revise its code of conduct for commissioners, and in particular the provisions thereof concerning financial declarations by commissioners, with a view to achieving for the european union the highest standards of governance. bringing back the memories of actions taken by the commissioner from latvia, piebalgs, i feel shame for commission. i voted in favour.
in writing. − doha negotiations are multilateral trade negotiations aimed at decreasing trade restrictions around the world, which will allow countries to increase trade worldwide. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is very good that the report highlights the current shortcomings of the policy-making process and the role of the institutional actors. mention is made of the negotiation of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking, effective enactment of the lisbon treaty with regard to equal treatment of the parliament and the council and a proposal for better use of regulations instead of directives. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the 2010 annual report aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions, for which the calendar of activities is not fixed around the legislative programme of the european commission but is set by the citizens who exercise their right to petition the european parliament. the annual report aims to offer a precise and full view of the work of the committee on petitions. this report presents a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee, the countries involved and the matters raised. these statistics represent an important quantitative tool for assessing the committee’s work. according to the statistics, in 2010 the european parliament received 1 655 petitions, which represents a drop of 14% compared to the 1 924 petitions submitted in 2009. this clearly shows a change in trend following the constant rise in the number of petitions in recent years. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this oral question followed up by a resolution seeks to press the commission to come up with an overarching eu homelessness strategy underpinned by national and regional strategies with the long-term aim of ending homelessness within the broader social inclusion framework. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in order to mitigate the consequences of climate change, while european climate policy has been focused on long-term reductions of co2 emissions, it is necessary to fight for preservation of nature by all means. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu reaffirmed its objective to negotiate and establish a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), when the relevant conditions are met, and underlined the importance for the republic of moldova to carry out the necessary reforms. the association agreement will create a new contractual framework for eu-moldova relations, replacing the partnership and cooperation agreement, which entered into force in 1998. the future agreement will deepen the political association and economic integration of the republic of moldova and the eu. its principal objective will be to draw moldova closer to the eu through commitments across a range of areas. these areas will include enhancing political cooperation, reinforcing joint measures in migration, asylum, border management, drugs and crime, expanding economic relations, and increasing cooperation in critical sectors such as energy, environment, transport and public health, with a direct impact on citizens’ daily lives and on the business environment. i voted in favour.
in writing. − whereas the eu has a vital interest in a democratic, stable, prosperous, peaceful north africa, the european parliament is looking forward to the end of the six-month conflict in libya and welcomes the fall of the 42-year old autocratic regime of muammar gaddafi, who was responsible for long and tremendous suffering by the libyan people; congratulates the libyan people on their courage and determination and stresses that the free and sovereign aspirations of the libyan people should be the driving force of the transition process since only strong local ownership will guarantee its success; expresses its full support for the national transitional council (ntc) in its challenging task of building up a new state representing all libyans; welcomes the recent recognitions of the ntc and calls on all eu member states and on the international community to follow suit; welcomes the fact that all un security council permanent members, including most recently china, have recognised the ntc as the legitimate authority in libya. i voted in favour.
in writing. − whereas the government of the syrian arab republic committed itself to implementing democratic and social reforms but failed to take the necessary steps to fulfil them; whereas the crisis in syria constitutes a threat to the stability and security of the entire middle east region; the european parliament calls again for an immediate end to violent crackdowns against peaceful demonstrators and harassment of their families, the release of all detained protesters, political prisoners, human rights defenders and journalists, and full access to the country for international humanitarian and human rights organisations as well as international media; calls upon the syrian authorities to stop government censorship of local and foreign publications, to end repressive government control over newspapers and other publications, and to lift restrictions on the internet and mobile communication networks. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament 1. welcomes the adoption by the commission on 6 june 2011 of an anti-corruption package, which includes a communication on fighting corruption in the eu and a decision establishing the ‘eu anti-corruption report’; 2. calls on the commission to prioritise the fight against corruption in the context of its security agenda for the years to come, including as regards the human resources allocated to it; 3. calls on the commission to address through its reporting mechanism the key concern of effective implementation of anti-corruption laws, as well as dissuasive sanctions, including those imposed by law enforcement and judiciary; 4. calls on the commission to address the transposition and enforcement of eu anti-corruption legislation, including dissuasive sanctions, and to take steps to stimulate the transposition and enforcement by the member states of relevant international and regional anticorruption instruments; 5. calls on the commission, in implementing the eu anti-corruption reporting mechanism, to ensure that independent experts are part of the expert group and the network of research correspondents, that all experts have a proven high level of integrity, reputation and expertise, and that a variety of civil society organisations are represented. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament 1. expresses its deepest sorrow at the loss of life and suffering in the region; calls for increased mobilisation of eu aid to areas where the famine is most severe to provide food aid, healthcare, clean water and sanitation supplies to the most vulnerable; 2. calls on all authorities and factions in the region to allow humanitarian aid organisations to have unhindered access to those in need and to protect the civilian population under all circumstances, particularly women and children, in accordance with international humanitarian and human rights law; calls for humanitarian corridors to be opened up in order to take food and aid deeper into the affected regions; 3. demands that all sides immediately end abuses against civilians, especially women and children, hold those responsible to account and ensure access to aid and the free movement of all people fleeing conflict and drought; strongly condemns the role of the islamist militant group al-shabab in obstructing the efforts of aid agencies and the wfp to deliver food aid; reminds all countries in the region of the need to assist and protect refugees under international law. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament 1. urges the eu to advocate a bold goal for reducing preventable mortality from ncds, such as the who goal of a 25% reduction in national mortality rates by 2025 as compared with 2010 rates; 2. calls on the eu and its member states to endorse the following key commitments and include them in the political statement to be issued at the un high-level meeting on ncds in september 2011: the reduction of preventable ncd mortality by 25% by 2025, as proposed by the who, the implementation of cost-effective and cost-saving interventions, including the speedier implementation of the who framework convention on tobacco control, better access to and the promotion of healthy diets, including action to reduce salt, sugar, saturated fat and transfat intakes, effective measures to combat the harmful use of alcohol, and access to and the promotion of physical activities, as well as a population-wide reduction in exposure to environmental pollution, including endocrine disruptors and other environmental contaminants, the monitoring of trends in ncd mortality and the common risk factors for ncds, the development of global and national accountability mechanisms for all key stakeholders involved. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament 1. welcomes the communication of the commission and agrees with the analysis of the importance of the impact of the wrc-12 on eu policies; 2. believes that the eu must speak with one voice in multilateral negotiations to promote its interests and to create global synergies and economies of scale in the use of spectrum; therefore, strongly encourages the member states to fully endorse these policy orientations and to actively promote and defend them in the wrc-12; furthermore, believes that, as long as the commission does not hold the right in itu to speak on behalf of the eu, the member states should closely coordinate a common union position on the basis of the rspp, together with the commission; 3. draws attention to the 25 individual agenda items of the wrc-12 and their potential impact on eu policies and objectives; 4. calls on the member states to safeguard these objectives and resist any modification of the itu radio regulations that would affect their scope and their substance; in this context, asks the commission to ensure that the principles of the eu treaty and of the ‘acquis communautaire’ are respected. i voted in favour.
in writing. – the policy of the european parliament and commission towards belarus shows its inefficiency and the uselessness of all steps taken. a number of resolutions and regulations have not had any effect. the lack of the belarus delegation in euronest has not encouraged discussing and solving problems. i consider it to be necessary to renew the negotiation process in all possible directions, including dialogue with the presidential apparatus of the republic of belarus. i think the most efficient dialogue may be within the interparliamentary group between the belarusian parliament and the european parliament, as well as at euronest meetings. ignoring the negotiation process may lead to long-term postponement of the democratisation process and improvement of the situation concerning human rights and freedoms in the republic of belarus. in terms of negotiations we can discuss even such cases as arrests and their legitimacy.
thank you, chairman. there's a political expression, "war at all costs". these are the methods used by hitler, mussolini, pol pot and hussein. but a political force emerged in latvia that promised to do one thing before the elections, but when it won, it immediately switched from the right [side] to the left and reversed all its promises to the voters. the name of this magical association is the "center of conscience". in real life, people who have changed their sexual orientation are called gay. then there are political gays in latvia called "saskaņas centers" and they agree to everything for the sake of power. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the palestinian authority is the eu’s smallest trading partner: exports from the two territories to the eu totalled eur 6.1 million in 2009. the proposed agreement would allow palestinian agricultural products, processed agricultural products as well as fish and other fisheries products duty-free access to the european market. the proposed agreement is more of a political nature than a trade deal per se. the rapporteur believes that it should help the region to develop economically, reduce its poverty and contribute to some political stability. i voted against, because i am not confident that profit from the trade will not be used for financing terrorist objectives. i am ‘against’.
in writing. − i know that mexico is an important trade partner and aviation market for eu carriers, with approximately 2.5 million passengers per year. the committee unanimously recommended concluding the agreement. i voted in favour.
in writing. − as is known, the new protocol, which will cover the period of november 2011-august 2014, leaves the reference tonnage of 5000 t/year unchanged, and increases the financial contribution to eur 435 000 (of which eur 110 000 will be earmarked for sectoral support). the new protocol provides fishing opportunities for spanish, french and portuguese vessels. but where are latvian, british, netherlands vessels? i am against the report.
in writing. − the purpose of this regulation is to simplify the regulatory constraints so that euro notes and coins can circulate more easily among the member states of the euro area, ensuring a high level of professionalism and safety. the amendments adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs concern the involvement of eu institutions and social partners, reference periods and professional training. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report encompasses all areas related to the successor of the seventh r&d framework programme: the need to keep separate eu research funds and programmes and the structural and cohesion funds; demanding new approaches to assist underperforming regions and member states to achieve excellence and smart regional specialisation; asking member states to consider funding erc, marie curie or collaborative projects proposals that have met the criteria of excellence but cannot be funded owing to lack of european funds; in the light of the future gearing of cohesion policy to the europe 2020 strategy, calling for the ‘innovation’ priority to be binding and for that priority to be reflected in the funding allocated at all levels; recommending that the commission analyse the possibility of setting up an all-european common fund financed by the structural funds to promote collaborative european research. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report suggests that the european school model be exported to the national school systems, developing schools that can welcome children whose parents are not agents of the institutions, creating new schools at the initiative of member states and encouraging multilingual and multicultural schooling at national level. in terms of budgeting, the report calls for budgets to be preserved, if not increased, so that the fundamental principles forming the basis of the european school concept – such as mother-tongue teaching by native speakers – are not compromised. it also points out that some member states are not meeting their obligations regarding the secondment of teachers and proposes that those member states who do not contribute financially by seconding teachers might pay an equivalent financial contribution to the schools’ budget. adopted s&d amendments sought to ensure that students who have successfully completed the european baccalaureate have equal access to european universities under the same conditions as students coming from national education systems. i voted in favour.
in writing. − there is a need of a right balance to be found between simplification and stability of rules and procedures. furthermore a stronger focus is needed on fraud rather than on formal irregularities and on a more differentiated treatment of irregularities, allowing for flexibility depending on the seriousness of the identified irregularity. therefore, i am in favour of the report.
in writing. − in its communication the commission proposes to improve and reinforce european disaster response capacity by proposing a two-fold approach: to set up a european emergency response capacity, based on members states’ assets and expertise and to establish a european emergency response centre and civil protection as a new platform for collecting real-time information on disasters, monitor hazards, alert member states, and coordinate the eu’s disaster response actions. the report welcomes the creation of a genuine 24/7 emergency response centre as a simplification of the current civil protection mechanism, which is considered too bureaucratic. it also highlights that better coordination among all actors is essential to avoid overlapping and duplication of efforts, on both the political and operational sides.
in writing. − the purpose of this regulation is to simplify the regulatory constraints so that euro notes and coins can circulate more easily among the member states of the euro area, ensuring a high level of professionalism and safety. the amendments adopted in the committee on economic affairs concern the involvement of eu institutions and social partners, reference periods and professional training. moreover, the scope of the regulation is extended – by recommendation app/2010/0206 – to the territory of member states that are about to introduce the euro, since there is normally an increased need for euro cash transportation in the run-up to the changeover.
in writing. − i think that following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to decide on proposals presented by the commission on dual-use items and technology: a community regime for the control of exports. dual-use items are goods which can be used for both civil and military purposes. controlling the export of dual-use goods is necessary. i am in favour.
in writing. − the tourism sector plays a key role in creating jobs and fostering economic development and cohesion in the eu. it is thus vital to strengthen its competitiveness as it is facing increased competition from other destinations.
in writing. − improving road safety is an important issue. 35 000 people died in road accidents in 2009; 1 500 000 were injured. it is necessary to adopt a broad set of measures and better coordination at all political levels to reduce the number of road deaths and injuries significantly. i am in favour.
in writing. − promoting agriculture in the developing world should be a priority. member states must, as a matter of urgency, make new investments in agriculture and rural development in developing countries as well as allocating an appropriate share of eu overseas development assistance to the agriculture sector.
in writing. − the report deals with the unilateral declarations annexed to the minutes of the council. the subject deserves a political answer rather than a change of rules. the unilateral declarations have no legal value; sometimes they are even not in conformity with the results of the negotiations and can thus undermine the coherence of the legislative work. the european parliament should send a clear message to prevent such statements during the negotiations in the second reading, and on the need to encourage ministers to speak on the transposition of directives (through systematic comparative tables). i completely agree.
in writing. − this report is a strategic report covering all major aspects of the eu’s external trade policy: trade in goods and services, trade defence instruments, investment, intellectual property rights, trade as a tool for humanitarian assistance and development and will make it possible to go forward. i am in favour.
thank you, chairman. mr barroso, when i sit in this room and listen to your speeches, i want to applaud, but when i go to latvia to see my constituents and hear what they tell me, i want to cry. latvia is forgotten today. latvia has become one of the poorest countries in the european union. so, in addition to all of the things that you've listed, i think i'd like to suggest one more aspect that we need to think about is that our actions match our words. we talk a lot about solidarity, about fairness, about equality, but how can a latvian farmer understand the word "equality" if you plan to pay a latvian farmer only 52% per hectare in 2020, that is, of the european union average?
thank you. thank you, chairman. we know very well that a great storm is brewing in the world, in europe, a financial storm, a crisis of confidence. and the reason why financial markets don't trust our member states is because they don't believe our member states are going to be able to pay back the money that they already owe them. today's legislative package - the financial supervision package that we have jointly developed and adopted - is a very important step in order to stop this storm, in order to regain the confidence of the financial markets in our economies, in our governments, and ultimately in the well-being of our citizens. but, colleagues, i urge you to remember that this legislation, this will solve and prevent future problems. we still have a lot of work to do today, and i think it is up to the commission to come forward with clearer proposals on what they will do to prevent today's problems, not just tomorrow's. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − after studying the report it became clear that the european parliament in its resolution approves the position of the council on the strengthening of some budgetary programmes and a decrease in financial appropriations for the 2012 financial year. i support these changes.
in writing. − in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis it is offered to mobilise a total amount of eur 3 944 606 from the european globalisation fund for denmark. it concerns 813 redundancies, of which 325 are targeted for assistance, in six enterprises during the nine-month reference period from 6 june 2009 to 6 march 2010. i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation fund.
in writing. − according to the german authorities, the sudden and drastic crisis related to a reduction in demand for motor vehicles, which could not have been foreseen, resulted in a significant reduction in production capacity utilisation as well as in a significant drop in revenue for suppliers in the automotive industry. the german authorities think that the 778 redundancies covered by this application will further contribute to the rising rate of unemployment in the regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf, already seriously affected by the dismissals by nokia in bochum and the closing down of general motors. i agree with such an approach.
in writing. − on 17 august 2011 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of portugal in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. good stuff, barroso, very beautiful lobbying of portugal. by the way, the conditions of the european globalisation fund are adjusted in a way to prevent other countries, such as latvia, lithuania, estonia, from participating in the mobilisation.
in writing. − the eu was obliged under wto rules (gatt article xxiv:6) to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights in the schedules of any of the acceding members in order to agree on compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is due if the adoption of the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase in tariff beyond the level for which the acceding country has bound itself at the wto. i abstained.
in writing. − since this report concerns the european parliament’s assent to an agreement between the european union and australia in the course of bulgaria and romania’s accession to the european union i voted in favour.
in writing. − since this report concerns the european parliament’s assent to an agreement between the european union and new zealand in the course of bulgaria and romania’s accession to the european union i voted in favour.
in writing. − experience gained during the first decade of the economic and monetary union shows a clear need for an improved economic governance framework, which should be built on stronger national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and on a more robust surveillance framework at the european level of national economic policies. i completely favour an extensive reform of the governance framework based on the community (union) method and a strong and independent commission overseeing and giving directions in the new deeper and wider economic policy surveillance framework.
in writing. − the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is a powerful instrument to address fragilities arising, namely, from medium- and long-term structural trends, from the enlarging divergences within the union (and euro area in particular) and the spillover effects of individual member states’ policies. the complexity and novelty of this approach will require the construction of a scoreboard with a limited but adequate set of indicators (to be agreed between council and parliament) and with the definition of upper and lower thresholds; the scoreboard should not be interpreted automatically but rather be complemented by thorough economic analysis and ‘in loco’ dialogue and surveillance missions. i support the report of elisa ferreira.
in writing. − the resolution is meant to contribute to stronger economic and budgetary coordination for the eu as a whole and for the euro area in particular. as a result, the eu’s interdependent economies will be better placed to chart a path to growth and job creation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in june 2011 the un human rights council (unhrc) adopted the first-ever un resolution on ‘human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity’. meps in several groups have expressed the wish to echo this historical development by: voicing the european parliament’s endorsement of this resolution and its welcoming positive developments in the field of sexual orientation and gender identity at the un in recent years; encouraging the hr/vp and member states to push for lgbt rights at the un and bilaterally; calling on the eu and member states to better safeguard lgbt people’s fundamental rights in the eu. i abstained.
in writing. − the european commission has proposed to extend the temporary crisis-related derogation that allows the european globalisation fund (egf) to be used for workers made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis in addition to those losing their jobs because of changes in global trade patterns. this derogation is currently due to expire on 30 december 2011, but the commission’s proposal would extend it until 31 december 2013, i.e. until the end of the implementation period of the egf regulation. the proposal reflects the fact that a large number of workers across the eu have been badly affected by the consequences of the current crisis. the aim is to improve the use of the egf by offering job support measures to those most in need. the commission proposal will be submitted to the eu’s council of ministers and the european parliament for approval.
in writing. − the s&d group supports calling for the immediate resumption of direct and serious peace talks, based on the internationally recognised parameters and a timetable agreed by both parties, as only a negotiated agreement between the two sides can bring lasting peace and security to israelis and palestinians. in the resolution the european parliament stresses again that all steps that may undermine the prospects of a negotiated agreement, with special regard to settlement-building in the west bank and in east jerusalem, should be avoided and that no changes to the pre-1967 borders, including with regard to jerusalem, other than those agreed by the parties should be accepted. it considers, in this context, the new initiative made by the middle east quartet on 23 september 2011 an encouraging contribution to peace efforts.
in writing. − i agree that that biodiversity and natural resources – such as water, soil and forests – must be properly valued and accounted for. in the report parliament supports the european commission’s call for a ‘green economy roadmap’ and stresses that sustainable growth needs new measures and ‘accountable targets’, including global goals to increase renewable energy and energy efficiency. the resolution calls for an end to environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020. i also agree that there should be an international tax on financial transactions – as proposed at eu level by the european commission – to support climate and biodiversity protection in developing countries.
in writing. − i support the renewal of the european globalisation adjustment fund after 2013. in a draft resolution presented by pervenche berès (s&d, france) and marian harkin (alde, ireland), it is proposed to establish an own-budget line for the european globalisation adjustment fund. currently, the sum reserved for the egf (eur 500 million per year) comes from community funds initially earmarked for other purposes. the aim of a separate budget line is to provide for a faster and more effective procedure allowing for advances to be paid to applicant member states within a period of two months from the registration of their application. i voted in favour.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we all know there were some shortcomings on bulgaria and romania’s road to schengen, but now the problems are resolved and bulgaria and romania are fully prepared to join the free travel area in 2011. one cannot invent new criteria for joining the schengen area and one cannot undermine the certainty that a state may join as soon as the existing criteria are met. my group finds it unacceptable that the netherlands and finland have even blocked the polish presidency’s compromise in the council without formulating any convincing reasons to do so. such action undermines european solidarity and i hope that the european council will find a solution – as we have heard today – with the assistance of the commission. i would like to thank ms malmström for this. i myself come from a member state which joined the schengen area in the previous enlargement and i remember how we wanted to join the schengen area. as such, i very much welcome the accession of bulgaria and romania.
in writing. – recently, parliament has turned into an institution where double standards are broadly used. practically, in all areas of activity there exists fellowship by national principle, lobbying and uncovered unprofessionalism. if such a state of play continues to exist, then parliament may lose its international status, and its opinions and resolutions will bring forth only a smile instead of a serious attitude. now a decision not to give bulgaria and romania the right to join schengen is false and unfair. i call on all members of the european parliament to stop closing their eyes and ears. we should support the right of our brothers and neighbours to travel around the eu without any restrictions, because these countries are part of the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we often talk in this room about the need to bring justice to different parts of the world and to different countries. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that justice is also found in our own european union! in particular, the european commission's proposal for the next multiannual budgetary framework for agriculture and cohesion policy is grossly discriminatory against latvia and the baltic states. for example, while cohesion policy in europe as a whole is projected to increase by 8%, in latvia the reduction in cohesion policy is projected to be 20% by a fifth! the same applies to agricultural policy. we are all in the single market, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot allow this kind of market distortion. we need to bring fairness to cohesion and agricultural policy for latvia and the other baltic states. thank you for your attention.
thank you, chairman. i also appreciate the work that has been done to analyse where we are with vat collection. everything i hear and everything that has been written suggests that in the seventeen years since this tax has been in place, it has become more and more elusive, it has become more and more fragmented, and it has allowed for more and more fraud. it seems that we're thinking about putting new shoes on this old, lame, sick horse and thinking he's going to be a good runner. i think we should seriously consider, not immediately but perhaps in the future, abandoning this tax altogether and replacing it with a turnover tax which would immediately eliminate all fraud schemes and also make administration simpler.
in writing. as the author of the single market report, i fully support the resolution on the impact of vat on the european single market. this is one of the prerequisites for attracting investment, although it must be acknowledged that it is not necessarily the main prerequisite. in recent years, several member states have been forced to raise vat to balance budgetary expenditure and to combat the challenges posed by the crisis. for example, in latvia, vat has been increased from 18 percent to 22 percent. i support the issues raised in the green paper, including the important issues of tax neutrality and the degree of harmonisation needed in the single market. vat is a final consumption tax and i would therefore agree that the administrative burden associated with vat should not be imposed on companies. the report also addresses an important aspect of the effectiveness of vat collection. although vat is one of the easiest taxes to collect, vat fraud schemes are still being caught in eu member states. the economy of others is like a cancer eating up public finances, but we must do everything we can to motivate people to pay their taxes.
in writing. − the agreement brings existing bilateral air service agreements in line with eu law, therefore, i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes are considered an important tool in reducing the risks facing policyholders in the event of the failure of an insurance entity. existing insurance guarantee schemes reflect the specificities of national markets and are highly heterogeneous in structure. for this reason the s&d’s and my opinion has been that of not supporting the adoption of a harmonised european approach to funding insurance guarantee schemes at this point.
in writing. − value added tax constitutes a major source of revenue for the national budgets of the member states. the vat system, which is based on legislation adopted at european level and applied at national level, suffers from numerous shortcomings which do not make it fully efficient and compatible with the requirements of a true single market. it is necessary to avoid fraud, favour not just consumption taxes but take into account innovative finance, streamline exemptions and reduce red tape, etc. i am ‘in favour’.
in writing. − i supported the appointment of jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank because in recent times he has participated in many negotiations between berlin and others members of euro area regarding the assistance to greece and other countries which are in a difficult situation.
in writing. − the european investment bank, whose shareholders are the member states, is one of the most important eu financial institutions. its lending outside the eu (eur 9 billion) accounted for more than 12 % of its total 2010 lending. an important part of its lending operations outside the eu is actually covered by an eu budget guarantee. this eu budget guarantee covers sovereign and political risks of eib loans and loan guarantee operations outside the eu. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the increase in callable capital contributes to maintaining the ebrd’s access to financial markets and to increasing its activities in the countries of operation, thus providing valuable assistance to the economies of those countries in difficult economic times. therefore, i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − though the proposal for a regulation does not completely and precisely lay down rules governing export authorisation, and import and transit measures for firearms, their parts and essential components and ammunition, nevertheless, for the purpose of implementing article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, i voted in favour.
in writing. − if the key aim of the measures is to revitalise the western balkan economies through a privileged access to the eu market, then economic development will foster political stability in the entire region. therefore, i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's resolution on the preparation of the european council meeting of 23 october 2011. the resolution called on the european commission to take decisive steps in the economic field to ensure economic stability and to address economic problems. i believe that the european union does not currently have a concrete plan for how to exit the eurozone crisis, and i therefore supported the call for it to be developed. europe must also take similar action to that taken by latvia to overcome the financial crisis. europe must have fiscal discipline, and the mechanisms must be in place to not only overcome the eurozone crisis but also to achieve a faster economic recovery. it is also necessary to prevent the possible recurrence of such a crisis. the largest economies in europe are important export markets for latvian businesses. a decline in growth or even a recession in those countries due to the eurozone crisis is highly unwelcome for latvia.
in writing. − with this resolution, parliament calls on the president of the commission to prepare a comprehensive plan with a clear road map, setting out distinct phases for its implementation. if the plan contains the following elements: an eu plan for the recapitalisation of european banks, the communitisation of the efsf and the future esm, and an assessment of whether the available and envisaged means will suffice to bring the sovereign debt crisis under control, a meaningful european growth, investment and jobs plan that also includes project bonds, ways of improving member states’ efforts to coordinate and harmonise elements of their tax systems, including measures against tax fraud, evasion and avoidance, a proposal for a faster and stronger mechanism which allows the commission to enforce the single market rules in member states, an economic government for the euro area based on the community method, and proposals to complete the overhaul of financial market regulation to make the eu economy more resilient to future crises, then i will support that project fully.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i consider the creation of the schengen area to be one of the greatest achievements of the european union. bulgaria and romania have fulfilled all the conditions for accession. the fact that some member states have chosen to block this process actually threatens the credibility of the criteria put forward by the eu. both romania and bulgaria were counting on the provisions laid down, and it is therefore incorrect to impose additional requirements now that both countries have complied with them. this is contrary to european values and contrary to what is written in the accession treaty. i understand the concerns of some member states, but this is not constructive and i am sure that they would not want to be subjected to similar methods. i hope, as does my political group, that a sensible decision will be taken in the end to allow bulgaria and romania to join the schengen area. it is in the interest of all of us, and in this community, the strong must help the weak.
in writing. − since the resolution insists that double standards for new and old member states are not acceptable, that there is no legal basis for adding new political criteria ‘in progress’ to those technical benchmarks established by the treaties and that political national considerations cannot overcome respect for eu rules, equal for all, i voted in favour.
in writing. speaking of the modernisation of public procurement in europe, i would like to draw attention to several things: firstly, the lowest price condition must not be the decisive one and must be replaced by the most economically viable offer, taking into account all the costs of the relevant goods, services or works in the life cycle; secondly, there is a need for flexibility in legislation so that institutions such as hospitals and schools have access to healthy and financially viable food, rather than just the cheapest available, and so that they can choose food products of regional origin, which would avoid excessive environmental pollution; thirdly, measures must be taken to reduce the transaction costs of smes, such as the 'once-only' principle, whereby only the selected tenderer must provide the original documents or a standardised passport at the end of the procurement procedure; and the creation of an electronic register of foodstuffs in which the relevant certificates are stored; fourth, more effective reporting practices are needed to prevent and fight corruption, including the exchange of information between member states on the exclusion of dishonest bidders, as well as on the exclusion of candidates found to be dishonest from public procurement until they have 'cleaned up'. fifth, the development of e-commerce requires practical progress in european standardisation and infrastructure issues, such as e-signatures and time stamps, for which the commission needs to develop common standards.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm going to the hospital. everyone is talking about the crisis. but we have to start thinking more about the way out of the crisis, not the causes of the crisis, not the banking sector, not the government debt. the way out of the crisis is to create jobs. these new jobs will create economic growth. but, colleagues, these new jobs will not be in the banking sector or in large companies. the new jobs will be created directly in small and medium-sized enterprises, which already employ more than 90 million people across europe. so to overcome the crisis, we need to focus more on the sme sector itself. why would you do that? first, small businesses are able to adapt quickly and learn from their mistakes. second, they are able to react quickly to market changes. and third, which i think is very important, they will be the first to create new jobs, to hire new people. so what do we need to do to help this sector? three things: 1) we will keep our borders open and free; 2) we will provide financial opportunities through guarantees and venture capital; and 3) we will reduce the administrative burden that is holding back their growth. let's help small and medium-sized businesses! they'll get us out of this. thank you for your attention.
mr president, precisely 20 years have passed since the supreme council of latvia adopted the resolution under which only those residents who had been latvian citizens in 1940 and their descendents were recognised as having citizenship of latvia. one third of the population was thus deprived of all political rights. this was a unique case in parliamentary history: a parliament depriving an essential part of its own electorate of citizenship and thus of voting rights. i want to ask this question: is the situation fair in which any eu national coming to latvia has the right to vote in local and european elections there, whereas a substantial proportion of the country’s native population and people who have lived in latvia for decades are deprived of that right? i regret that support was not forthcoming for the proposal by the greens and socialists to include on the agenda of this october session an oral question with a resolution on voting rights for non-citizens of latvia in local elections. i hope that this issue will be debated in the near future.
in writing. − it is known that draft amending budget (dab) 5/2011 covers the modifications to the establishment plans of the european data protection supervisor (edps) and the european external action service (eeas), both without any additional budgetary requests. the council adopted its position on dab 5/2011on 12 september 2011. the purpose of the change to the eeas establishment plan is to allow the eeas to comply in 2011 with the statutory promotion rates set out in the staff regulations and to permit further progress towards the objective that staff from national diplomatic services should represent at least one third of the service’s staff at ad level. the purpose of the change to the edps establishment plan is to delete an ad 14 post and to create an ad 15 post (upgrading) to fulfil obligations under the staff regulations in relation to the promotion of a newly appointed director. i support the rapporteur on both issues and i voted in favour.
in writing. − after postponement earlier this year of the 2009 budget discharge for the european police college, the new draft report proposes to grant discharge, and there are no amendments tabled to refuse it. the draft report generally recognises the big improvements made in the college’s management over the past two years. two amendments were passed, asking for the college’s relocation and for its merger with europol in the hague for efficiency reasons – going beyond the remit of the committee on budgetary control, as decisions on the location of agencies and other bodies are made by the member states. i agree with the rapporteur and i voted in favour.
in writing. − budget discharge for the european medicines agency for 2009 had been postponed because considerable concern had been expressed about weaknesses in the agency’s procurement systems and also in relation to the prevention of conflicts of interest. the committee voted to grant discharge and close the accounts, approving our rapporteur’s amendments (members of the envi committee from all groups had been active in securing support for this position). a number of quite critical amendments were passed, including some calling for very detailed reporting to parliament in future, so these issues are likely to be discussed again in the discharge procedures for future years. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of council directive 92/23/eec of 31 march 1992 relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting. the new directive will supersede the various acts now incorporated into it. this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and hence does no more than bring them together, with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report, prepared in enhanced co-operation with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, examines options for alternative dispute resolution (i.e. resolving disputes out of court) in advance of the commission’s proposal on the subject, which is expected in the next month. whilst people’s access to justice must continue to be guaranteed, there are many types of dispute that can be resolved easily and relatively cheaply out of court – for example, customer complaints, divorce proceedings, etc. – and this report looks at ways to encourage that. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the council asserts that it received budget discharge when the commission budget discharge was granted in may 2011: it bases this on the treaty specification that only the commission has to be granted budget discharge. the council considers that ‘separate negotiations on the council discharge 2009 after closure of the accounts had no legal basis’. on the other hand, parliament’s legal view is that ‘closure of accounts does not mean that discharge is granted’. parliament, in its role as budget discharge authority has to be satisfied that eu funds have been correctly used by all institutions, including the council. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is known that the non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) directive (97/68/ec) aims to control emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulates (co2 emissions are not covered by this legislation) from a variety of engines in, for example, excavators, bulldozers, front loaders, back loaders and compressors. the directive was amended in 2004 to introduce new emissions limits and, in addition, the flexibility scheme allowing manufacturers to place on the market a limited number of engines belonging to the older category (with higher maximum permitted exhaust emissions). the proposed amendment provides for the possibility of enlarging the flexibility scheme, from 20% to 50% of annual sales of equipment, and extending it to include engines for railcars and locomotives, with a flexibility rate of 20% of annual sales of machinery fitted with engines in the specified category.
in writing. − the council has adopted conclusions on the new european disability strategy 2010-2020. the strategy aims to empower persons with disabilities so that they can enjoy their full rights and participate fully in society and in the european economy. it identifies eight main areas for action: accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education and training, social protection, health, and external action. i particularly welcome the call to the council to adopt the proposed directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. i also support the emphasis on the need to guarantee universal, effective, non-discriminatory access for persons with disabilities to social protection, social advantages, health care and education, and on the fact that integration into working life and economic independence are extremely important factors for the social integration of people with disabilities. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report highlights ‘environmental and social public-policy challenges, as well as quality-of-work issues including adequate pay, equality, social cohesion and inclusion, while achieving optimal value for citizens, businesses, employees and taxpayers’ and, with regard to the general principles for awarding contracts, states clearly that the lowest price should no longer be the determining factor and that ‘it should, in general, be replaced by the criterion of most economically advantageous tender, in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits – taking into account the entire life-cycle costs of the relevant goods, services or works’. i therefore believe that the report is a very important document and i support it.
in writing. − since our group fights for the mobility of workers in an eu free of barriers, with strong integration policies and guaranteeing the observance of social and labour rights, including the right to strike, collective representation and equal pay for work of equal value, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report examines experience with mutual evaluation in relation to the services directive, adopted in 2006. it was in the framework of the services directive that mutual evaluation was used for the first time for an eu legal instrument. the main goal was to assess the state of the internal market for services following implementation of the directive, and the evaluation focused chiefly on legal requirements for the establishment of businesses and the cross-border provision of services. the report gives general, though conditional, support for application of this method in other policy areas where appropriate. it is a very timely report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i support this resolution because we now see clearly that irresponsible fiscal policies have led to a debt crisis that affects the whole world. i fully agree with the report that global imbalances are a potential threat to financial and macroeconomic stability. reforms in global economic governance are needed, but politicians must respect the laws and agreements they have signed. the members of the weu are required to comply with the weu statutes. we see that ignoring the maastricht criteria has put europe in a very difficult situation today. what countries have committed to do must be done. i also agree that wto members must do their utmost to develop international trade. in times of low economic growth, the removal of various trade barriers can become a cornerstone of strong economic growth. i very much hope that the recommendations of this resolution will be taken seriously in the g20 summit talks. these are challenging times, and the future depends on us. i thank the rapporteur for his work, because i think the european parliament has adopted a report which contains good proposals.
in writing. − i believe that the financial sector and securities markets are important for economic development, but that in order to maximise their positive impact on the world economy, they must be addressed. the european parliament's report on the governance of the world economy contained, in my view, the necessary actions to be taken to promote the development not only of this sector but of the world economy as a whole, and i therefore supported it. given the interconnectedness of global economic processes, there is a need for closer cooperation between international organisations and for greater oversight of the financial sector. this report contained policy recommendations for the governance of the global economic and financial sector as well as recommendations for the reform of the international monetary and financial system and institutions. it is in the interest of latvia to support such efforts to limit speculation, imbalances in financial markets, and to ensure that banks actively resume lending.
in writing. − the development of the world economy generally over recent decades has entailed increased growth and prosperity, albeit unevenly distributed, lifting millions of people out of poverty. meanwhile, however, the number of people still living in poverty and despair is unacceptably high, social and economic inequalities between and within countries must be reduced, and the fight against poverty must be one of the top priorities in the europe 2020 strategy. the report therefore stresses that global imbalances, especially when excessive, constitute a potential threat to financial and macro-economic stability in the leading economies and may also have repercussions on other economies. taking this into account, it notes that both surplus and deficit countries should address imbalances stemming from structural misalignments and lack of competitiveness at a domestic economic level, as these could be sources of fundamental problems. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i support this motion because i want to emphasise that education is key both to preventing high rates of single motherhood and to providing single mothers with opportunities to attain higher professional status and therefore better pay. this motion puts forward initiatives which will help to reduce discrimination in employment. as we know from statistical studies, women in general suffer from discrimination at the workplace, and unfortunately this is worse in the case of single mothers. europe must take advantage of the newly-created european institute for gender equality in vilnius to help alleviate such disparities. european institutions can work to reduce this workplace discrimination by providing tax incentives for employers to encourage the recruitment of single mothers and provide more flexible working hours and childcare services. while the initiatives put forward by this motion are aimed at helping single mothers, they are not limited to this; most can help single fathers and working-class families in general. i believe it is important for europe to help support the development of our future generations, and for this reason i have chosen to support this motion.
in writing. − this report focuses on the situation of single mothers in the eu. the rapporteur outlines all sorts of problems that single mothers face, including interruption of their education, poor health, unemployment and a higher risk of poverty – in fact 32% of single-mother households in the eu-25 were at risk of poverty, as against 12% of couple-based households. many member states also fail to meet the barcelona target of providing childcare for at least 33% of children aged under three, thus making the situation for single mothers even worse. the report suggests that member states should take a more progressive approach and ensure access to childcare facilities for up to 50% of children aged under three, and 100% of those in the three-to-six age band. it also invites the commission, while developing programmes such as progress and equal for the next multiannual financial framework, to consider awareness-raising programmes for promoting greater participation by certain economically fragile social groups, including single mothers. it proposes tax reductions to companies that employ single parents and provide childcare facilities. the report is very important and i supported it.
in writing. − i chose to support this motion because i believe that it sets out parliament guidelines and proposals to counter organised crime at eu level; it will help strengthen and improve the functions of the various structures which are meant to fight organised crime and, as it is our duty to fulfil those commitments we have made to our citizens, i believe it is an important motion. organised crime has substantial social costs; it infringes upon the eu’s commitments towards its citizens by misappropriating resources, distorting the free common market, promoting corruption, infringing on human rights, undermining the rule of democracy, and much more. lately organised crime has taken advantage of globalisation, the abolition of eu borders and the legislative differences among member states. as crime acts on a transnational basis so must the organisations which strive to prevent it. that is why we must take advantage of the new opportunities and instruments at eu level which have come into being since the enactment of the treaty of lisbon, judicial and police cooperation and the organisations responsible for the prevention of transnational crimes, such as europol, eurojust, olaf, and european public protectors.
in writing. − since the report reaffirms the importance of an eu strategy for fighting transnational organised crime and mafias that pose a considerable threat to security and legality in the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness is expected to map out future commitments aimed at making development aid more effective, and to help develop a new international aid architecture in the run-up to the 2015 deadline for achieving the millennium development goals and beyond. i agree that one of the prerequisites in order to fulfil the ‘aid effectiveness agenda’ is to embrace fully the principle of ‘democratic ownership’, which means that development strategies must be driven by the countries themselves and reflect a commitment on the part of all national stakeholders. in favour.
when i read the document we are discussing, i do not have the impression that it is a crisis budget. there is a division of everything by age - one a little more, one a little less, but the budget does not make it clear what we ultimately want to solve with this budget implementation during the crisis. this applies to the common agricultural policy, science, cohesion and controls. the control bodies here in parliament often report that hundreds of billions of euros are being mismanaged. at the same time, the budget for the control bodies has been reduced. i can't explain that to my constituents in latvia.
in writing. − the report contains a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway. i voted in favour.
in writing. − galileo is a global navigation satellite system currently being built by the european union and european space agency. one of the political aims of galileo is to provide a high-precision positioning system upon which european nations can rely, independently from the russian glonass and us gps systems, which can be disabled for commercial users in times of war or conflict. the report contains a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite-based navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the proposal for a council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries located in different member states because i believe that a more transparent and simpler system of tax collection is needed to make it easier for businesses to administer taxes. nor should it be possible for an individual company to have to pay taxes both in its home country and in the country where its subsidiary or permanent representative carries out its business. the commission considers that the acquisition of the company by the state is not a selective measure, but that the acquisition of the company by the state is not a selective measure. this amendment to that directive is one of many that will result in a more favourable tax environment for economic operators.
in writing. − the change introduced by the s&d group is aimed at avoiding extreme forms of non-taxation and under-taxation by asking a member state to refrain from taxing distributed profits of a parent company received from a subsidiary in another member state only if those profits have been taxed in the country of the subsidiary at a statutory corporate tax rate not lower than 70% of the average statutory corporate tax applicable in the member states. i support the report with our change and i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report suggests changing the financial rules so as to simplify procedures and initiate the new governance of the eu budget in crisis situations. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the agenda for new skills and jobs is one of the seven flagship initiatives to boost growth and jobs contained in the europe 2020 strategy. the priorities of this strategy are: flexicurity - reducing segmentation and supporting transitions in the labour market; equipping people with the right skills for employment; improving the quality of work and working conditions; supporting job creation. by increasing jobs and equipping people with the right skills, we will overcome the crisis; i therefore voted in favour.
mr president, i have some remarks to make, in my one minute, to the ombudsman and the commissioner. first, in 2010 most of the complaints to the ombudsman referred to the lack of transparency in the eu administration. i want to urge the council, which is absent today, and the commission to use secrecy as an exception and not as a rule. very often, after reading documents in the so-called ‘secret room’ of the european parliament, as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i pose myself the rhetorical question of what the need is for confidentiality for one document or another. second, we also know that the biggest proportion of enquiries in 2010 related to the european commission and share completely the ombudsman’s concerns about the high number of unsatisfactory replies by the commission to his critical remarks. our own experience in the committee on petitions, when dealing with certain unsatisfactory replies from the commission, shows that his enquiries are not poorly reasoned. we hope that the further work by the ombudsman will impact positively on the union’s administrative culture. finally, i too would like to thank ms iotova for her report.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. colleagues, imagine a sea, and in that sea there are boats, big and small, all tied together. some ships have holes in the bottom, water flows in, and pirates attack everywhere. well, this is the landscape of the european union today, where many member states have budget deficits that prevent them from growing. now, rising in the morning mist, we see mr. van rompuy and mr. barroso coming out with warships, scaring all the pirates away. ladies and gentlemen, these decisions taken by the european council have not frightened the financial markets, or, one might say, have not calmed them down for good. it's bought us some time. it is time for us all to put our national budgets in order. financial markets don't trust countries because they're not being supported by taxpayers' money. we'll fix the government's budgets, use the time these big shots have bought us. thank you.
in writing. − the rapporteur approves the work of the ombudsman and i agree with the rapporteur.
in writing. − this directive aims to establish minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the area of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and solicitation of children for sexual purposes. it defines offences concerning sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, and solicitation of children for sexual purposes and aggravating circumstances thereto, as well as the minimum maximum levels of penalties for the offences. the directive also defines the rules on seizure and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of such crimes as well as assistance and support for the victims, and preventive intervention programmes and measures. the directive also defines the measures against websites. this directive is extremely important and |i voted in favour.
in writing. − this directive forms part of the so-called asylum package and is the first directive of the package to be put to the vote. the directive recast defines and modifies the minimum standards for the qualification and status of third country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection and the content of the protection granted. the main issues to be recast were the definition of family members, the best interest of the child, acceptable actors of protection (internal and international), grounds of persecution (including gender identity and sexual orientation), residence permits and social assistance. i voted in favour.
for the ecr group thank you, mr president. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would also like to start by thanking deborah serracchiani for her great patience, as well as for the cooperation of her fellow shadow reporters. firstly, the complete separation between infrastructure managers and operators. i think that, despite all our difficult attempts, we must wait for the decisions of the court of justice of the european communities, and we have no reason to believe that commissioner kallass [siim kallas] will not come forward with a balanced and detailed commission proposal on this matter before the end of next year. i would also like to thank you for the great understanding in the many rounds of negotiations on the specific market share that exists in european railways, the so-called russian 1520 mm track gauge market. and thank you for this understanding - which is, as far as we know, relatively close to the community's position on this issue - on many specific issues. firstly, it concerns the setting of infrastructure fee thresholds, capacity allocation schedules, requirements for the upgrading of rolling stock or rolling stock. because i am really grateful for this understanding and i very much hope that despite the contradictions we have heard today, we will be able to vote this week on a balanced proposal that will further compromise with the council. thank you.
thank you. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there's a disease called multiple sclerosis where nothing goes down and there's news every day. i would remind you that a few years ago, there was a slogan: "one country, one people, one leader". everybody knows how that ended. but today there are also ministers of the republic of latvia who voted against the constitution when funds were diverted to collect signatures to determine the status of the russian language as the state language. today, there are ministers in the latvian government who propagandize the slogan "latvia for latvians!" and there are people in the european commission who do not hear or do not want to hear that in latvia there is a serious violation of the fundamental rights of russian-speaking citizens and minorities of the republic of latvia, who make up 45% of the country's population. there's a disease called multiple sclerosis where nothing goes away, but every day there's news. thank you.
in writing. − the report describes the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on coordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent. what is more i would like to see these measures be transparent and accessible for implementation of comprehensive control, therefore i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − according to the convention, the carrier is responsible for damage incurred as the result of loss or damage to luggage, bodily harm inflicted on the passenger or his death, if damage occurred during transportation and was a consequence of the fault or negligence of the carrier, his employees or agents acting within the limits of their responsibilities. the complainant is required to prove guilt. the carrier is not responsible for the loss or damage of money, securities, gold, works of art or other valuables if they were not given to the carrier for storage. i am categorically against that norm of convention. after the council had solved numerous issues that the convention had regulated insufficiently, such as the carrier’s liability in the event of fault or neglect, compulsory insurance and the right to make claims directly against the insurer, i supported the initiative.
in writing. − since it has become clear that the legal elements of the protocol relate to judicial cooperation in civil matters, particularly regarding passenger compensation, providing for strict liability and including compulsory insurance with a right of direct action against insurers up to a specified limit, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the agreement allows the operation of direct flights between any location in the eu and jordan. the following aspects will become possible: gradual market opening, non-discrimination and the harmonisation of rules on safety, security and air traffic management. i am in favour.
in writing. − if uniform framework conditions apply to all aviation undertakings in the eu and georgia, including the current legislation on aviation security and safety and air traffic management in future, and if the overall purpose of the agreement is to facilitate a reciprocal market opening to all economic stakeholders on a non-discriminatory basis, i vote in favour.
in writing. − the canary islands belong to the outermost regions. to overcome their handicaps (e.g. small internal market, great distance from the mainland) special measures may be envisaged. due to the economic and financial crisis, the industrial sector of the autonomous community of the canary islands has deteriorated and unemployment has risen. tariff suspensions on imports of certain industrial products are aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the local economic operators. therefore, there are no reasons to disagree with the report of ms hubner. i am in favour.
in writing. − euratom’s programme aims at the generalisation and development of knowledge in the nuclear field, an increase in the scientific-technical qualifications of specialists and the improvement of technologies from the point of view of their reliability, safety, cost-effectiveness and sustainable development. i would like to be confident that the results of research will be accessible to all eu citizens for free in future. i am in favour.
in writing. − this report asks the commission to come up with one or more legislative initiatives relating to an eu corporate insolvency framework. the s&d achieved two objectives: firstly it adopted in the committee on legal affairs technical amendments whereby we ask the commission to come up with a clear definition of ‘comi’ (centre of main interest) for groups of companies and, in relation to that, rules for a shift in comi or substantive consolidation, in order to identify the legitimate jurisdiction for main and secondary proceedings. secondly, it provided a bridge between regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 and directive 2008/94/ec on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employers. i totally support the report because in it parliament calls on the commission to introduce a ranking of creditors that should give precedence to employees and set minimum standards of protection irrespective of different legal definitions for the categories concerned and substantive national laws.
in writing. − i agree that demographic developments in the regions should be made comparable in view of exchangeable data and that exchanges of best practices between members states, regions and local communities should be encouraged. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal to regulate short-selling is the result of the need to harmonise the national competent authorities’ approach to limiting short-selling practices and to regulate the market of credit default swaps. the most important element is that we will tackle speculation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i completely approve if this political agreement endorses the need for a common legal framework for the systematic collection, compilation and transmission of european statistics on permanent crops in the different member states.
in writing. − the proposal will extend the euratom programme in order to align it with the end of the eu’s current financial cycle in 2013. euratom programmes are limited to five years by the euratom treaty, whereas the general 7th framework programme for research, which runs until the end of 2013, lasts for seven years. i am in favour.
in writing. − the legislative package aims to continue supporting r&d actions in the nuclear field carried out under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011). the proposals will only cover two years (2012-13), in accordance with the current financial perspectives (2007-2013) and in line with the time frame of the eu’s 7th framework programme (2007-2013). i am in favour.
in writing. − since the report focuses on how to develop the recognition of professional qualifications and thus enhance the mobility of eu citizens and how to improve confidence in the recognition system, and takes into account that special attention should be paid to professionals in the healthcare sector, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report outlines the core objectives of the consumer agenda and places a special focus on consumer empowerment, consumer protection and product safety, on measures to reach a more social and sustainable consumer policy and on enforcement of consumer rights and redress. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i agree with the special nature of gambling services and therefore stress that the main responsibility in regulating online gambling should remain the competence of the member states. common action might be needed in the field of protection of vulnerable consumers, fraud and money laundering.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because i believe that we do not sufficiently appreciate the problems facing beekeeping. it is worrying that in recent years bee colonies in europe have been disappearing, causing not only economic losses but also threats to the ecological system. the beef and veal sector is an integral part of european agriculture, providing jobs and income for a significant number of people. if we do not tackle the problems of the beekeeping sector seriously today, we will have to invest ten times more in the future to solve these problems. i would like to confirm that the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development will do its utmost to provide the necessary support to european farmers. our position on beekeeping may seem puzzling to some, but bees play a vital role in pollinating agricultural plants. if the number of bees decreases, then the number of other agricultural products that we grow will also decrease, and we cannot allow that to happen. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and to express the view that we have voted today on a balanced report.
in writing. − the report drafted by mr tabajdi highlights the importance of supporting the beekeeping sector. beekeeping plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas and provides income, directly or indirectly, for over 600 000 citizens. the report emphasises the need to stem the worrying trend of increasing bee mortality and the declining number of beekeepers in europe, all of which could have a serious impact on food production. an estimated 84 % of plant species and 76 % of food production in europe depend on pollination by bees. i completely support my colleague and voted in favour.
in writing. − it is high time we wanted more simplification, more clarity and more proportionality, insisting on the need to respect the subsidiary principle. on social services, the report points out the need to take their diversity into account, notably through further exemptions from notification. on local services, the report supports the introduction of the ‘de minimis’ rule and calls for appropriate thresholds for this rule. it would be nice if commission officials attentively examined this document and stopped producing stupid directives.
in writing. − the priorities of our group are the following: an improved budget for the fight against poverty, stronger european action on minimum income possibility of a legislative initiative, legislative initiatives on social services, food distribution to the most deprived, eu strategy against homelessness, roma, housing, child poverty, better care and decent pensions for older citizens. i completely support this report.
in writing. – i am particularly pleased with the european heritage label initiative, as i believe that a strong european union can only arise from strong common foundation and from a common understanding of each other. european heritage is an indispensible part of european unity, as our union is based on a shared historical belief and struggle for the principles of democracy, freedom, and human rights. while the historical experiences of our nations may differ, we are all europeans with the same fundamental values. it is important that we pay tribute to the events, people, and places in our common past which have helped us to develop this unique union. our unity in diversity is what makes us strong, and a common understanding of our neighbours and ourselves can only strengthen this bond. places such as athens, the birthplace of democracy, or events such as the fall of the berlin wall and the 1989 baltic way, where in spite of overwhelming force people demanded freedom and the reunification of europe, connect us all. commemoration not only helps europe understand its common past and destiny, it also helps to highlight the common goals and common values of our nations.
in writing. − this is the nineteenth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 12 689 838 from the egf for ireland. it concerns 4 866 redundancies, 3 205 targeted for assistance, in 1 482 enterprises operating in the field of construction in ireland, during the nine-month reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. it is necessary to help ireland, but the criteria of the fund should be amended to make it available in latvia. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the twenty first application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 387 819 from the egf for ireland. it concerns 842 redundancies, 554 targeted for assistance, in 230 enterprises operating in the field of architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis in ireland, during the nine-month reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. it is necessary to help ireland, but the criteria of the fund should be amended to make it available in latvia. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the twentieth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 21 664 148 from the egf for ireland. it concerns 3 382 redundancies, 2 228 targeted for assistance, in 1 560 enterprises operating in the field of specialised construction activities in ireland, during the nine-month reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. it is necessary to help ireland, but the criteria of the fund should be amended to make it available in latvia. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the seventeenth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3.643.770 from the egf for austria. it concerns 2 338 redundancies, of which are 502 targeted for assistance, 706 enterprises operating in the field of land transport and transport via pipelines in austria, during the nine-month reference period from 1 february 2010 to 31 october 2010. it is necessary to help austria, but the criteria of the fund should be amended to make it available in latvia. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the eighteenth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 918 500 from the egf for greece. it concerns 642 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in two enterprises in the retail sector (‘supermarket and supplier’) during the five-month reference period from 4 november 2010 to 4 march 2011. it is necessary to help greece, but the criteria of the fund should be amended to make it available in latvia. i am in favour.
in writing. − since the report insists on the importance that the joint parliamentary assembly monitors the situation in africa, caribbean basin and pacific region i support it. i am in favour.
in writing. − knowledge of the history of our continent; familiarity with its common cultural heritage, which transcends national borders; increased educational awareness for the next generations: these are regarded as key aspects in efforts to bridge the divide between the european union and its citizens. the label will be granted to sites with strong symbolic and aesthetic value from the point of view of european heritage, and it also intends to contribute to the sustainable economic development of regions by encouraging cultural tourism.
in writing. − reforming the first railways package involves issues such as financing rail infrastructure, the operation of rail related services, national regulatory bodies’ role and the separation of infrastructure management from operations.
in writing. − official delegations from 196 countries, including russia, will participate in the conference. fighting climate change should remain a priority, both at european and international level. the eu should show leadership at the un climate summit in durban and provide full support for the conclusion of a comprehensive, international, legally binding agreement post-2012. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report analyses how the eu and its member states have attempted to meet their commitments for more and better financing for development. the purpose of this oral question and resolution is to press the council and the commission on what action they intend to take following the main findings of the report, including: 1) promoting good governance in tax matters and fighting illegal financial flows. 2) supporting international trade and increasing private investment, remittances and other private flows for development. 3) increasing aid and climate change finance in line with commitments. 4) spending aid effectively, support debt sustainability in developing countries and create a more conducive international architecture for development.
in writing. − it is known that the report considers both the economic and cultural aspects of european cinema, taking the view that european cinema should be more competitive at a global level but must be sure to retain its european identity and continue to promote cultural and linguistic diversity. it is also necessary to provide funds for popularisation and the protection of copyrights of cinema producers to make the process have the economic aspect. i am in favour.
in writing. − i am confident that in order to adequately support the criminal court politically, the eu has to ensure a high-level political and diplomatic presence in the regions and countries. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is clear that the integrated maritime policy is a new policy supporting cross-sectoral and cross-policy actions in relation to the sea, coastal and island regions. instead of the eur 50 million in the original commission proposal, eur 40 million could be achieved which is satisfactory given the economic circumstances. i am for being economical and i voted in favour.
in writing. − the legislative package aims to continue supporting r&d actions in the nuclear field carried out under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011). the proposals will only cover two years (2012-13), in accordance with the current financial perspectives (2007-2013) and in line with the timeframe of the eu 7th framework programme(2007-2013).
in writing. − although the resolution contains several recommendations addressed to the eu-us summit regarding foreign affairs issues, such as the demand for a palestinian state, libya, syria, saudi arabia, kosovo, guantanamo, as well as to the transatlantic economic council for trade, transport, civil liberties, industry and internal market issues, it is necessary to continue working towards the coordination of common actions between the eu and the usa. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report draws attention to the serious risks of departing from network neutrality – such as anticompetitive behaviour, the blocking of innovation, restrictions on freedom of expression and media pluralism, lack of consumer awareness and infringement of privacy – which will be detrimental to businesses, consumers and democratic society as a whole, and considers the principle of net neutrality as a significant prerequisite for enabling an innovative internet ecosystem and for securing a level playing field at the service of european citizens and entrepreneurs. i am in favour.
in writing. − finally there is a report calling on member states which wish to reduce the humanitarian impact of cluster munitions to take strong and transparent national measures pending accession, including the adoption of a moratorium on the use, production and transfer of cluster munitions, and to make a start on destroying cluster munitions stockpiles as a matter of urgency. i am in favour.
in writing. − vat rates applicable to books illustrate the shortcomings of current legislation in that, while member states should apply reduced vat rates to the supply of books on all physical media. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − georgia has not achieved progress in its pro-european path, and it needs to accelerate reforms in the judiciary system, ensure better protection of the freedom of media, improve labour and women’s rights, as well as the integration of ethnic and religious minorities. also georgia should apologise for genocide against the south ossetians. i am against the resolution.
in writing. − gender mainstreaming is aimed at better reflection of expectations, aspirations and experience of all society, both men and women, by governmental institutions. i am wholeheartedly in favour.
in writing. − the report stresses that, in order to close markets to illegal seafood, new measures are needed, such as compulsory registration of fishing vessels above 10gt (gross tonnage), a global catch certification scheme, international exchange of information on vessels’ activities, import controls, etc. i am in favour.
thank you, chairman. i would also agree with the many comments that have been made to improve our 2012 budget. for my part, i think that the increase proposed by the council in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations is too large. the overall budget of the balancer would be much more acceptable. reserves are in administrative expenditure and also in other statutes. secondly, i do not think that the council's proposal to increase budgetary expenditure by category at the expense of the category reserve can be supported. it is necessary to ensure an adequate level of reserves in the budget of the european union, in particular in the categories of external relations and administrative expenditure.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is already the twenty-second application to be examined under the 2011 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 518 465 from the egf for portugal. it concerns 726 redundancies in three enterprises operating in the field of manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers during the nine-month reference period from 1 july 2010 to 1 april 2011. the egf has never been applied to latvia. i think that criteria should be amended in order to allow small countries, such as latvia, to be able to participate in the fund.
in writing. − the judge at the piraeus court of first instance, section 7, has requested the waiver of immunity of georgios toussas, member of the european parliament, in order to enable him to conduct the criminal proceedings started as a result of the instructions issued by the public prosecutor’s office of the piraeus magistrate court. mr toussas, together with eight other persons, is charged with knowingly defrauding for the benefit of another party, by a sum in excess of eur 147 000, the property of the merchant seamen’s fund, a legal entity under public law, the management of which he was entrusted with.
in writing. − mr de magistris was summoned before the court of naples by bagnoliafutura spa, a mixed company domiciled in naples engaged in design and in soil remediation, in connection with press releases issued by him and published on his website. luigi de magistris submits that in the press releases he expressed his political opinion as a member of the european parliament and according to him it is absolutely normal and necessary to inform the public of the results of his work. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is known that during the previous programming period member states had positive experiences with repayable assistance schemes – which were introduced at the national level – and therefore continued to use them in the current programming period. however, these schemes – in the form of the reimbursable grants and of credit lines – have not been properly covered by the ec regulation no 1083/2006 (general regulation). therefore the commission submitted a proposal to amend the current general regulation accordingly, so as to provide the clarity of an existing legal practice. i am completely in favour.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 1083/2006 on the operation of the european regional development fund and the european social fund. the amendments would allow the european union to increase its co-financing from these funds by 10 percentage points for countries whose financial stability is threatened or which have received financing from international lenders (latvia, greece, ireland, portugal, romania, hungary). in the case of latvia, this means an increase in co-financing to 95% from the current 85%.
in writing. − i support all the necessary measures to be taken to support member states in difficulty to face the current financial crisis. decreasing the co-financing rate under the structural funds for those member states, exceptionally, for this period could be a major help.
in writing. − the report is about the application of the special arrangements concerning the aiem tax applicable in the canary islands. spain submitted a request to the european commission to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec for two years. the spanish authorities confirm that the handicaps that justified the approval of total exemptions and partial reduction of the aiem tax to a list of products produced locally in the canary islands are still valid. accordingly, the purpose of this proposal is to extend the period of application of decision 2004/162/ec for a period of two years – until 31 december 2013 – in order to make it coincide with the guidelines on national regional aid that are applicable for the period 2007-2013. i am in favour.
in writing. − council decision 2007/659/ec authorises france to apply to ‘traditional’ rum produced in its overseas departments and sold on the french mainland a reduced rate of excise duty. the reduction in excise duty is limited in quantity and the derogation expires on 31 december 2012. the report contains two requests: an increase of quantity from 108 000 hectolitres to 125 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol to reflect developments on the market for rum in the eu; and a request for an extension by one year, i.e. to 31 december 2013, of the period of application of decision 2007/659/ec. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am in favour, because the report inscribes itself in the annual exercise aimed at establishing some democratic control over the european central bank, whilst respecting its full independence.
in writing. − i believe that tackling early school leaving quickly and effectively can help the eu from a cultural, social and economic viewpoint. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the proposal seeks to make an exception to the regulation to allow the whole of the kaliningrad oblast as well as a wider area at the border with poland to be considered as a local border area. this will avoid fragmentation of existing administrative districts and ensure the inhabitants can move easily without visa requirements. i think this is a very good proposal and i voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome the signing of croatia's accession treaty and regard it as proof of credibility of eu enlargement policy: hard work and reforms take some time, but pay off ultimately! s&d is looking forward to the arrival of croatian observers to the ep. in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i think that croatia should continue stepping up the reforms, in particular in the field of judiciary, fight against corruption and the integration of refugees. the completion of the accession talks and the start of the ratification of the accession treaty must not stop the reforms.
in writing. − amendments are aimed at making financial side of mep's work become more clear and transparent.
in writing. − i abstained from voting because the case is entirely political and not all aspects and documents of this case were carefully examined.
in writing. − i abstained from voting because the case is entirely political and not all aspects and documents of this case were carefully examined.
in writing. − i supported the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies because i believe that latvia has an interest in stable export markets. unfortunately, events in europe no longer give us any confidence in the stability of these markets. this requires that member states, and in particular the euro area, agree on shared responsibility and the regulation of their national finances. many euro area countries now have to do what latvia has done successfully over the past two years.
in writing. − the initial goal of the report was to assess the first cycle of the european semester. with the new developments on economic governance, the scope of the report has been broadened to focus on the way to upgrade the parliamentary dimension of economic governance with two main proposals: reinforce the european parliament’s role within a co-decision process for the european semester; and reinforce cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments. in favour.
in writing. − given the importance of the european union's single market for latvia, its businesses, its development and its welfare, and the fact that there are many obstacles to the functioning of this market, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the outcome of the single market forum. the resolution calls for the establishment of a single market forum as a regular event, calls on the member states to ensure the proper application of internal market legislation, and stresses the growing importance of the digital market. i believe that the representatives of latvia should also be involved in this forum, as its importance is likely to increase.
in writing. − as a follow-up of the single market act, parliament organized jointly with the commission and the polish presidency the ‘single market forum’ in krakow this october. the event brought together politicians, stakeholders (trade unions, businesses, ngos etc.) and citizens to discuss the functioning, problems and future of the single market. as requested in the single market act report of the parliament, the single market forum is foreseen to be an annual or biannual event, in order to evaluate and discuss the further development of the single market. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report is very important because the commission and member states should ensure adequate funding and investment to carry out the research needed to implement effective hiv programmes that give equal and timely access to hiv testing, treatment and care to all, and calls on the member states to direct their policies towards ending the discrimination and social exclusion often associated with people living with hiv/aids and to protect fundamental rights. i voted in favour.
in writing. − ukraine’s association with the eu provides the best possibility for overcoming recent negative trends in the country and i welcome the perspective of the association agreement. in favour.
in writing. − since i believe that an eu modernised system of customs should aim at enhancing eu competitiveness while aiming at improving product safety, market surveillance, guaranteeing protection for eu consumers as well as the eu’s financial interest, i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate on the future of the european union. i had just returned from russia a week ago, where i had seen the parliamentary elections. errors and irregularities could not have affected the result, but today there are demonstrations in russia and a resolution is being prepared in the european parliament. before you decide, you should know that the demonstrations in russia are organized by two former prime ministers, and their goal is not democracy, but only power. but they were already in power and became very rich people. we don't need to be meddling in russia's internal affairs. this is stupid, and we have to find another way. thank you for your attention.
in writing. last week's european council is just a small step in the right direction to stabilise europe's economic situation. however, if we are to restore economic growth and strengthen europe's global competitiveness, we need to achieve a full-fledged fiscal union with integrated economic governance. unfortunately, many national politicians have not yet realised the critical situation in the euro area and their responsibility for the future of the continent and for preventing a global economic downturn. i urge the member states, in due consultation with their national parliaments and the european parliament, to prepare a new intergovernmental agreement as soon as possible and i hope that the member states will not hesitate to complement the european treaties to restore eu growth. i would like to stress that the return of the british government to the common table of negotiation and decision-making is in the interests of both europe as a whole and the uk as a whole.
in writing. - i voted for the recommendation for second reading on a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards micro-enterprises, council directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies. those amendments provide for exemption from the obligation to submit annual accounts for certain economic units, provided that they meet certain criteria. i have always been in favour of reducing the administrative burden on businesses. the draft amendments to the said directive (council directive 78/660/eec) will remove the obligation for companies to submit annual accounts if their number of employees does not exceed ten and their turnover and balance sheet values do not exceed a certain value. as small companies in latvia have the possibility to become micro-enterprise taxpayers, such an additional exemption will only make the existing tax regime more favourable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i believe that balanced regional development is a fundamental value of the european union, which will contribute to overall economic growth in the long term. the economic crisis and mismanagement have forced several member states to request financial assistance over the last three years to cover budgetary expenditure and stabilise their financial situation. in particular, in these circumstances, people in rural areas whose economic situation depends on eu funds projects implemented in the regions are at risk of unemployment and poverty. in the context of the economic crisis, it is even more difficult for operators to provide 25% co-financing for projects, which makes the overall situation in the regions worse. that is why we have decided today that the european union will have to cover up to 95% of the costs of rural development projects. this is a temporary support for member states, valid for two years, which will facilitate the implementation of projects. in conclusion, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rapporteur for the joint resolution, paolo de castro, for his work in getting this amendment adopted.
in writing. - i voted for the extension of this agreement because european fishermen have been working successfully in the waters of the kingdom of morocco so far and this practice should continue. the desire of the kingdom of morocco to receive compensation for the right of european fishermen to use moroccan natural resources is justified and should be supported. the european union pays €36.1 million each year for fishing opportunities in the waters of the kingdom of morocco, a small sum for the eu's overall budget compared to the jobs created by european fisheries companies, which contribute to the economic development of the eu member states. unfortunately, parliament today rejected the extension of the agreement and instructed the commission to negotiate a new agreement. this is worrying because the current agreement expires in february 2012. this means that after that date, european fisheries companies that were counting on continuing to fish in moroccan waters will have to review their plans. it could also mean job losses, which is the last thing we need now that the eu is facing the deepest crisis in its history. i call on the commission to resume negotiations with the kingdom of morocco as soon as possible so that we have a new agreement that has the support of a majority in parliament.
in writing. − i supported the continuation of the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement, which allowed latvian flag vessels to continue fishing in moroccan waters and provided jobs and tax revenues. since 2004, latvian fishing vessels have been fishing in the eastern central atlantic fisheries, including the waters of the kingdom of morocco. in 2009 and 2011, 2 vessels were fishing here, but in 2010 as many as 3 latvian fishing vessels. the total catch during the year was: 7667,5 tonnes in 2009, 8877 tonnes in 2010 and 5739 tonnes by 1 november 2011. together with the catches made in the neighbouring country's waters, the mauritanian eez, this fishery accounts for more than half of latvia's total catch. it is therefore important that those vessels can continue to fish in moroccan waters.
in writing. − i support this motion because freedom and democracy in russia are in the interest of europe, its neighbourhood and russia itself. russia remains one of the eu’s most important partners and has veto power in the un security council. as such, challenges on an international level, in particular with regard to syria and iran, cannot be solved without a coordinated approach. as a member of the council of europe and the osce, russia has committed itself to the principles of democracy and fundamental rights. europe must express its strong concerns regarding disrespect for these principles in russia. election violations, treatment of peaceful protestors and the case of sergei magnitsky are some of the many vivid examples of russia’s transgressions. numerous irregularities in the recent elections reconfirm the need for russia to comply with election standards set by the council of europe and the osce. finally, russia must work to resolve the so called ‘frozen conflicts’, including fulfilling its obligations in the ceasefire agreement with georgia.
drafting of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − in the european union as a whole, one third of all energy consumed is consumed in the transport sector. it is mainly oil products, but europe imports 80% of all oil products, so it is clear that we are not only dependent on imports, but in the transport sector we are over-dependent on imports in terms of energy. our aim must therefore be to reduce our dependence on energy imports in the transport sector. how can this be done? there are three main types. the first is that we need to use existing fuels more efficiently, the second is that we need to increase the use of biofuels, and the third is that we need to make better use of hybrid technology and electric car technology. colleagues, i support this report because it will help to reduce our dependence on energy imports in the transport sector. i urge everyone to support it. thank you for your attention.
i would like to begin by thanking mathieu grosch for this report. finding the right balance between these priorities and interests - as evidenced by the more than 400 proposals - was difficult, as was finding the right balance between the development of a proper or balanced transport sector and the promotion of competitiveness, environmental protection requirements and reasonable financial requirements both for taxpayers and for transport operators. the report contains a number of positive elements, it also points to the differences in the level of infrastructure development in the european union, the creation of a single european transport market, the reduction of fossil fuels in transport, but the european conservatives and reformists group finds it difficult to support the common report's tendency to always solve problems through european union regulation, which, given the differences i have mentioned, is very difficult for some member states.
mr president, i recall the situation in my own country, latvia. i know the situation very well, due to my experience as a human rights defender who has for many years worked on concrete applications coming from places of detention. the latvian human rights committee (ngo), of which i am a member, has produced a number of reports on conditions of detention in latvia, which it has submitted to the united nations’ committee against torture and the appropriate osce and council of europe bodies. thanks to our insistence, the place of detention for illegal immigrants situated at the very centre of riga, in which people were held in terrible conditions, has been closed. but there still are huge problems relating to conditions of detention in latvia, and the delegation of the european committee for the prevention of torture which visited latvia in 2009 called on the latvian authorities to improve conditions, especially for prisoners serving life sentences. therefore we need eu legislation incorporating european prison rules, particularly as regards accommodation, access to health care and legal advice.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. in the european union, we pay a lot of attention to budgetary austerity measures, and rightly so, because our governments cannot spend money that they don't have for a long time. but just as important, or perhaps even more important than thinking about how to save money, we need to think and talk about how we're going to grow the economy. and the key to, and the opportunity for us in europe to foster economic growth is by actually increasing competition within the european union. i would like to speak specifically about two areas: the services sector and the energy sector. the services sector accounts for 70% of all economic activity in the european union, but we know that many businesses are still, unfortunately, effectively denied the opportunity to work across borders. this sector must be opened. and in the energy sector too, we know very well that in many member states of the european union there is virtually no competition in the energy market. for example, latvia still has a 100% monopoly in the gas sector, and moreover a monopoly of a third country subsidiary. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the beneficiaries will be all citizens of the european union. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted a resolution at its plenary session in strasbourg on the compilation of indicators for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances. this proposal contains recommendations for a commission working document (sec(2011) 1361 on indicators to be used for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances in the member states. the commission's working document (sec(2011) 1361) is a legitimate follow-up to the work already undertaken to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the european union in the future, on which the european parliament should also make its recommendations. the resolution calls on all parties concerned to act as quickly as possible to establish this monitoring system, and stresses the need to develop an action plan in the event of a domino effect and the need for independent and verifiable statistics. i supported this motion for a resolution because i believe that the supervisory system is the foundation and guarantor of stability and the legitimate continuation of the set of six pieces of legislation on economic surveillance, which i helped draft and which the european parliament adopted in september this year.
