member of the commission. − mr president, let me first echo the sentiments of those who expressed thanks to ms angelilli for initiating a very rich debate this evening. i have five points to make in summing up the debate. first, the commission fully agrees with the views that have been expressed on the importance of protecting and promoting the rights of children in inter-country adoptions. this is and will remain the main objective of the commission as we participate in discussions on this topic, both in the context of the hague convention and in our work on the rights of children in europe. on this issue, i would point out that in the forthcoming communication on children’s rights, we will present actions to promote the rights of the child for the period between 2011 and 2014. these will include actions aimed at improving the support the commission provides to member states in the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. as i mentioned with reference to the green paper, we are also taking steps that will facilitate the circulation of civil status acts as adoption decisions – in other words, the mutual recognition of national adoption decisions within the eu. with regard to meps’ concerns that the issue is sensitive and should be seen in the context of national needs and national legislation, the commission would like to underline that the romanian law on international adoptions is the sole responsibility of the romanian government. the measure that has been taken must be seen in connection with the abusive practices in inter-country adoption in romania in the past. the commission is closely following developments in romanian legislation, but i would like to stress again that it is romania’s sole responsibility to further develop this law. on monitoring, it is our strong belief that the appropriate institution is the special commission of the hague convention on the protection of children and cooperation in respect of inter-country adoption. the commission participates in that monitoring body. we will take many of the points that have been made this evening into account when we think about how we participate in the work of this body. the commission considers accreditation to be a matter of national authority. it relates to family laws that member states have and develop, and therefore it is appropriate that it should be addressed at that level. finally, i will convey to vice-president reding the points that have been made here this evening, including the question raised by one member in relation to which an answer is expected. as the godmother of an adopted boy, i have seen how emotional and difficult the issue of adoption can be, and how many factors are involved in a decision to adopt. i have listened to the debate this evening not only with great interest, but also with a sense that it is a matter not just of legislation, but also of hearts and minds. therefore let us pray that hearts and minds are brought into play in a way that best protects the interests of children, both our children and children in other countries.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 january 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – the resolution being discussed is basically stating the fundamental principles of the rights of children to be adopted and safeguards for their welfare. it is deficient in putting forward concrete proposals to make the adoption procedures more efficient, less bureaucratic without compromising on the safeguards. there are thousands of orphaned or abandoned children who live in substandard conditions. there are thousands of childless couples who could give a future to these children. it is not enough to call on eu institutions to play an active role at the hague conference to exert pressure to improve, streamline and facilitate international adoption procedures. it would be more meaningful if concrete proposals are made on how to streamline and facilitate international adoption procedures. it may be admirable if the issue of international adoptions is seen within the wider context of adoption itself. national governments need to legislate so as to give a fresh impetus to the relevant laws and enable the adoption of children who have been abandoned by their parents. in many legislations the assent of the biological parents is still necessary, even if these have completely abandoned their children.
most of us pay little attention to our health until we are healthy and do not need any kind of treatment. however, when we find ourselves in a precarious medical condition, we automatically begin to understand how important health is, and how important it is to have a high-quality health system - systems that are not only good but efficient and effective. citizens of the european union have the advantage of being able to seek treatment in different countries of the european union, when their condition cannot be treated in their own country. we must remember that this option should be the last one and should not be encouraged: is a costly option and, moreover, impractical. it should be our last position. and where there is no choice, however, we must ensure that bureaucracy is reduced as much as possible and the quality of access and security are increased. member states should also be given the necessary means to protect their health systems and to cope with any excessive influx from other countries. it is therefore ideal that member states have prior authorisation. in this context it is clear that the rules currently in place are not adequate - they are not sufficiently clear and consistent. however, as we have seen in the case of organ donation, we can also find solutions to move europe forward and offer the best medical services to european citizens.
in writing. – to date, the eu still does not have an adequate response to alzheimer’s, neither has it concluded a single policy on its prevention. moreover, it is worrying that countries like malta still do not offer any refund for medication needed by patients suffering from the disease. notwithstanding that the commission cannot interfere with the organisation of national health insurance schemes, the commission should step up its efforts to put pressure on member states to guarantee that any person suffering from alzheimer’s is getting the necessary treatment. i call on the commission to truly make the fight against dementia a european priority and conclude the below-mentioned proposals within a reasonable time frame: (1) promote cardiovascular health and invest in a healthier workforce; (2) promote initiatives that ensure social and intellectual engagement of the elderly; (3) encourage member states to implement systematic routine screening which allows for early diagnosis of the disease, as well as providing easy access to medication and treatment once the disease has set in; (4) ensure that regular epidemiological studies at a european level are carried out; (5) prompt member states to make better use of assistive technology (at).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by stressing that the commission unambiguously rejects homophobia because it is a blatant violation of human dignity. that is also why, on 22 november 2010, i visited lithuania and discussed with president dalia grybauskaitė and the minister of justice the proposal to amend the administrative code, which establishes a new offence punishable by a fine for ‘the promotion of homosexual relations or financing of such promotion in public places’, as well as the related proposal to amend the penal code. according to the latest information in my possession, the adoption by the lithuanian parliament of this draft amendment to the administrative code was postponed and is now expected to take place in spring this year. this means that it is still under discussion. the commission is examining the proposals to amend the lithuanian administrative and penal codes, as well as other lithuanian legislation, from the perspective of compliance with relevant eu law. in 2009, the commission expressed serious concerns to the lithuanian authorities in relation to the compatibility with union law and fundamental rights of the lithuanian law on the protection of minors against the detrimental effect of public information. following the commission’s intervention, this law was amended in december 2009. the law qualifies as detrimental to minors information that ‘expresses contempt for family values, encourages the concept of entry into a marriage and creation of a family other than stipulated in the constitution of the republic of lithuania and the civil code of the republic of lithuania’. the practical application of this law may raise questions in terms of compliance with the e-commerce and audiovisual media services directives and with the principle of non-discrimination. the commission is continuing to look into this matter. according to the information in my possession, an amendment to the law on provision of information took effect on 18 october 2010. this amendment prescribes that ‘advertising and audiovisual commercial communication […] must not contain manifestation or promotion of sexual orientation’. if these provisions were to remain in the law, we would see the same problems in terms of compliance with the audiovisual and media services directive and possible violation of article 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. in may 2010, the commission wrote to the lithuanian government expressing worries about the last-minute suspension of the baltic gay pride event. you will remember this. we recalled in that letter that freedom of peaceful assembly, as provided for in the european convention on human rights and article 12 of the charter, is one of the principles on which the union is founded. on that basis, baltic gay pride was held on 8 may 2010: that was the event to which a previous speaker referred. as regards the question of a possible european strategy on the fight against homophobia, the commission’s priority is to ensure that eu legislation complies fully with the eu charter of fundamental rights, including article 21 prohibiting discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation. how this is to be achieved was explained very clearly in the commission’s communication on the strategy for effective implementation of the charter of fundamental rights, adopted on 19 october 2010. we will come back to this matter in the annual report on application of the charter, which also covers progress on the application of article 21. that will happen in spring of this year. according to this logic, the phallometric test as a procedure under asylum policy is, of course, subject to eu law and relates directly to article 21 of the charter, which prohibits discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. this clearly means that if, in eu law or in its application at national level, there is discrimination, then the union is empowered to intervene. it is very clear that the union can intervene here. to conclude, i would like to reiterate the commission’s strong commitment to combating homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation, to the full extent of the powers conferred by the treaties. regarding the recognition of civil status, we have no intention of proposing any legislation that would interfere with member states’ substantive family law or modify national definitions of marriage. this is subsidiarity. our green paper on recognition of civil status is designed for cross-border situations, such as the recognition of birth certificates, and is not concerned with the recognition of same-sex marriage. we must not mix things up. it is for the member states to define what marriage is. it is for the european union to permit free movement and non-discrimination. these are two completely different things. such is the position in european law and that is what we apply in real terms.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the epp is committed to upholding the values and principles upon which the union is founded, in particular the respect for human rights. europe should fight against all forms of discrimination and that includes discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. at the same time, we have to respect the right of any democracy, as long as it respects human rights and the non-discrimination principle, to discuss, modify and adopt national laws, without interfering in the debates of national parliaments, without infringing the principle of subsidiarity and without acting or condemning a member state prematurely. we do not like the idea of condemning a member state, especially since in this particular case the proposed modifications have not even been voted on by the plenary of the lithuanian parliament and are still under review by the lithuanian authorities. not only that, but the proposed modifications have already been deemed to be in conflict with european law by the lithuanian authorities themselves, who have declared that they will be taking action to remedy the situation and to respect the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. so this proposed legislation will probably not even make it onto the statute book of lithuania and therefore there is no need to condemn this member state. to conclude, i do hope nonetheless that tomorrow the epp will be able to support the joint resolution as long as it does not condemn any individual member state and as long as it is modified to make it more balanced.
in writing. − i welcome the grossetête report on the adoption of a directive on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare. today’s vote has brought us one step closer to codifying patients’ rights into european law. it is imperative that once this directive comes into force, patients are not left to shoulder the economic burden of cross-border healthcare and that reimbursement is carried out in a timely, expedient and smooth manner. high quality, equity, solidarity and universality in healthcare must remain the guiding principles during the transposition and implementation phases in the various member states. in addition to this, governments should make public timelines and action plans on how best to monitor and ensure this kind of implementation. finally, for this directive to be truly effective, the commission must monitor and supervise the coordination between the member state of affiliation and that of treatment and ensure that any inequalities and disparities in access to cross-border care and treatment by patients are averted.
in writing. − although this resolution refers to working visas, it is highly unlikely that citizens of the pacific states will select malta, as opposed to the rest of the eu, as a place to seek employment. that is why i voted in favour of the original text proposed.
in writing. − to determine the increasing problem of abandoned children, european institutions and member states should play a more active role in improving the instruments of international adoption by facilitating and coordinating international adoption procedures at european level, without jeopardising in any way the security and safety of the children’s rights and by respecting all international conventions protecting the rights of the child. the union and the member states have to ensure stronger scrutiny in cases of international adoption, in order to prevent child exploitation, abuses, abduction and trafficking. member states should find a balance between high international safeguards and standards in order to safeguard the rights of the child and the reduction of bureaucracy and the facilitation of international adoption procedures. moreover member states should have more transparent rules with regard to international adoption procedures and should also retain a constant exchange of information on the conditions and surroundings of the adopted child in the new environment. in conclusion the primary concerns in the international adoption procedures should always be in the best interest of the child, with particular attention to children with special needs, in order to guarantee children’s and families’ rights.
the attacks on christians in egypt and other countries are reprehensible and it is our duty to react. i would like to ask, if we in europe do not defend the good of christianity, christians and their freedom of religion, who will defend them? but we must be careful that muslim communities are not radicalised and manipulated by extremism. we must also be careful not to think of all muslims as terrorists because only a few are in favour of violence and extremism. at the same time, muslim communities around the world should condemn extremists who abuse their religion and should therefore disassociate themselves from them and prevent them from discrediting the muslim religion. at the same time we must urge the authorities of these countries where christians are being persecuted to provide the necessary protection to christians. above all, despite the events that we are witnessing and that are capable of stirring up anger, we need not lose our reason. as mahatma gandhi said, "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth has left us all blind and toothless".
those who are against a deal with libya should appreciate that libya is our carrier! and your carriage cannot be ignored. you have to find a way to live with him even if you don't necessarily like everything he does. it is easy for those colleagues who are not from a country that is a libyan port to speak out against this agreement, but it is more difficult for those who live in a mediterranean country that is a libyan port and want to find a way to cooperate with this country. and yes, this agreement needs to also include a chapter on immigration, including a readmission agreement. while of course respecting, without doubt, the rights to international protection for anyone seeking asylum.
the president of the council. - thank you very much, mr. president, for your kind words. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i thank the house for the opportunity to address a very important issue of asylum procedures here tonight. parliament has put five questions to the council and, as they all relate to the commission proposal for a directive on asylum procedures, i propose that we discuss these five questions together. in your questions you refer to the report of september 2010 prepared by the commission on the application of the asylum procedures directive. this report confirms that there are still very wide differences between member states in asylum procedures and procedural guarantees. the council and the european parliament agree that this is not in line with our mutually agreed objective of establishing a common european asylum system. in october 2008, the european council adopted the european pact on migration and asylum, which underlined the commitment of the eu and its member states to address the challenges and opportunities of migration and asylum in a fair, effective and coherent manner. the pact includes, inter alia, a specific commitment to take the necessary initiatives to complete the establishment of a common european asylum system. the european council therefore invited the commission to submit proposals for a uniform asylum procedure with common standards. the stockholm programme also clearly stated that greater harmonisation in the context of the establishment of a common european asylum system should remain a fundamental policy objective of the union. after the european council had thus given the process political impetus, the commission put forward a number of proposals in the field of asylum in 2008 and 2009, such as the eurodac proposal you mentioned in the previous introductory debate, the proposal to amend the dublin regulation, the proposal to amend the directive on reception conditions, the proposal to establish a european asylum support office and finally the proposal to amend the directive on asylum procedures and the directive on recognition. the council immediately set to work on the commission's proposal. at this stage, all proposals were subject to intensive and detailed examination by the council and the preparatory bodies. the only proposal so far that parliament and the council have been able to adopt is the regulation establishing the european asylum support office, which i am pleased to see will soon be operational. last year parliament and the council also agreed to amend the long-term residence directive, which i believe will give a significant impetus to further work on the common european asylum system. unfortunately, as you rightly point out, progress in other areas has proved to be more difficult. the political sensitivity and technical difficulties of this subject i think i don't have to explain to you. we all need time here, the council and i think parliament too. as you have very rightly pointed out in your questions, the proposal for a recast of the asylum procedure directive contains a number of particularly problematic points. the complexity of this issue is also reflected in the ongoing position-taking in parliament. it is clear that the council still has significant concerns on a number of issues related to the proposal. in particular, they concern the impact of the proposed measures on the costs and efficiency of national asylum procedures. you yourself said earlier that we have to pay close attention to efficiency and cost. member states strongly support the objectives of harmonisation in order to agree on certain basic common standards and values and uniform protection criteria. member states are therefore committed to fully respecting the right of asylum seekers to protection. at the same time, member states want to make their systems sustainable, especially in the light of the current difficult economic situation. this requires a balance between the guarantees provided to asylum seekers and rules that are effective and enforceable and do not increase the administrative or financial burden. the council is generally convinced that failure to strike a proper balance in this area will encourage the abuse of the asylum system, as mrs hohlmeier has already indicated, by those who do not need protection. this abuse could adversely affect asylum seekers who are genuinely in need of protection and could jeopardise the issue of asylum in the european union in the long term. in view of this, the commission's announcement that it intends to submit an amended proposal has received wide support in the council, and i am sure the commissioner will speak about this shortly. this new proposal, i am sure, will give new impetus to the debate in the council by ensuring that the opinions of the council and parliament are included in this new proposal. this will allow us to make progress on the proposal on asylum procedures, which you have rightly pointed out in your questions, as an important element of the asylum package. i should add that in response to the commission's notification, the member states have clearly stated their willingness to assist the commission in the preparation of the new proposal. in this context, let me point out one more aspect. it would be helpful to have a more precise estimate of the costs of examining the applications submitted, so as to enable a proper debate to be held in the council. i'm afraid i have to tell you that we in the council do not have that information. the examination of applications for asylum is a matter for the member states in accordance with the treaties. the collection and collation of information on the costs of examining applications for asylum is not a task conferred on the council by the treaties. therefore, during the debate, i am not in a position to commit myself, on behalf of the council or on my own behalf, to provide the information in question. at the same time, of course, the council remains committed to continuing the work on the proposal to amend the asylum procedures directive, and i would like to thank you for the work you have done so far, and i am sure that the commission will incorporate your comments so far into the new proposal. we count on the commitment and expertise of the european parliament. the hungarian presidency is confident that good cooperation will enable us to make progress in this area as well. they should know that the aim of the hungarian presidency is to prepare the common european asylum system to be established in 2012. you have mentioned several pieces of legislation that we would like to see moved forward. we want to reach a political agreement on the negotiation of the qualification directive and on the dublin regulation before the end of the hungarian presidency. we will do our utmost to ensure that there is greater harmony between parliament and the council on procedural matters.
member of the commission. − mr president, the asylum procedures directive is an essential element of the common european asylum system. it is the aim of the commission to establish a system that is balanced, fair, efficient and cost-effective. financial impact is a critical aspect of every commission proposal and is assessed thoroughly. the commission carried out extensive research at the time of the preparation of the asylum procedures directive proposal, in line with the requirements on impact assessment. the evaluation of financial impact was mainly based on statistical information and data obtained from member states through the comprehensive questionnaires sent out by the commission. only a few member states could identify the full cost of asylum procedures. others provided certain elements, mainly on the costs of legal assistance and interpretation. the commission assessed financial implications on the basis of the available information. the commission concluded that, given inter alia the aim of reducing costs, an approach based on front-loading was to be preferred: i.e. investing resources in the early stages of the asylum procedure in order to make it faster, more efficient and fairer. additional investments in the first-instance procedure improve the efficiency of the asylum process. such investments are offset due to savings at the appeal stages and a reduction in overall reception costs. the choice of this approach was fully supported by the findings of a recent project in the uk, the so-called ‘solihull pilot’, presented at the ministerial conference on asylum in 2010. this project confirmed the hypothesis that front-loading the asylum process – in particular by providing access to competent legal advice for asylum applicants at the start of the procedure and allowing the legal representative to interact with the decision-maker – leads to significant improvements in the quality of first-instance decisions. it resulted in much quicker decisions and a higher percentage of positive decisions at first instance, fewer appeals and a higher percentage of removals to countries of origin. it was possible to reduce considerably expenditure on appeals and on accommodation and welfare. these savings considerably outweighed the additional legal aid costs. i would also like to remind you of the recent study, prepared by the european parliament, on burden-sharing between member states for the reception of asylum seekers, which provides an analysis of costs of asylum procedures and reception, including legal aid. to conclude, the commission has paid considerable attention to the cost element as part of the impact assessment. the findings have been confirmed by empirical evidence and the information has been complemented by the european parliament study. therefore, the commission does not intend to prepare another study on costs. however, during the next stages of the negotiations on the asylum procedures directive the commission will continue to be attentive to the cost aspects.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, there is no question but that the asylum package is currently blocked and this is a pity. it is an unfortunate situation and we should all do our best to unblock the situation. i can think of many reasons why the situation is blocked. first of all, we seem to have concentrated on new proposals when we all know that there is existing legislation which member states are struggling to implement – and this has created an ill-at-ease feeling amongst member states, because they are clearly not prepared to move on to new laws when they have difficulties with existing ones. secondly, the new proposals feature and envisage new and much higher obligations and burdens which are at times unrealistic, especially in the current context, and which could also, as has been highlighted already, lead to abuse that should be avoided. thirdly, there is indeed a lack of a financial assessment, of a study to determine costs, and i am afraid i have to disagree with you, commissioner: i do not think that the study carried out by the european parliament on burden-sharing is about the costs of these proposals. in any case, it is a job for the commission to study the financial implications of its own proposals. furthermore, there is no proposal on a proper, legally binding burden-sharing mechanism and this, too, creates difficulties for a number of member states, and indeed for this parliament. finally, the council is still stonewalling on proposals such as the review of the dublin regulation. i am very happy to hear the council say that the presidency will pay close attention to this and increase the efforts to find a solution on the dublin dossier. it is difficult. we are in a difficult situation and we need to get out of it. the epp group is still very much open to cooperating with the council, and most importantly with other groups here in parliament, to try and reach a compromise that is acceptable for all.
in writing. − we have all witnessed the plight of coptic christians in egypt in the last months. such acts of violence should be condemned in the most absolute of terms. it is not only intolerance towards christians that should be condemned but rather any form of intolerance towards the exercise of a person’s religious freedom. i believe that this resolution was well balanced and i have thus voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − the state of affairs in belarus has deteriorated over recent months and is now of great concern. it has been shown that the elections that have been carried out in no way satisfy the requirements of free and fair elections in a democracy. the arrest and continued detention of presidential candidates as well as the violence shown to protesters must be condemned. the eu should do everything within its power to demonstrate that such events will not be taken lightly and possible measures should certainly include the consideration of economic sanctions against belarus. it is for these reasons that i have decided to support the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. − it is crucial to note that due to the exceptional circumstances that have been witnessed because of the financial crisis, a degree of flexibility has necessarily had to be exercised in the context of eu competition policy. nevertheless it is crucial to understand that the principles upon which the policy is based are those of open markets and the ensuring of a level playing field. these are essential conditions for a successful internal market. it is my opinion that this report has adequately tackled the issues of concern that have arisen as a result of the crisis. the report has also been successful in setting out the best way forward. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
madam president, there is no doubt that europe could have done much more to bring the arab countries and the arab world to democracy, but if there is anything positive in these dramatic events we have witnessed it is that the arab peoples themselves have taken it upon themselves to improve their own situation. after all, history is replete with situations and interventions by western countries that have done more harm than good in these countries. so we have to get rid of this idea that to fix things we have to go, we dictate and we preach. what we have to ask ourselves today is what we can do from now on in the light of what has happened. i think we need to do two things: first of all we must step in, with our help, to foster and strengthen the democratic environment in these countries, and in particular democratic institutions, so that they can flourish; and flourish in a way that the extremists and new dictators are pushed aside. secondly, we must ask ourselves where we went wrong. we must ask ourselves whether our euro-mediterranean policy has been too much talk and not enough facts. where was the union of the mediterranean? europe, we have to ask, will it continue to react rather than start to act?
in writing. – the first foreign visit which the new tunisian prime minister made was to the european union. baroness catherine ashton welcomed the pm and it was clearly appreciated that the eu was the venue for his first foreign visit. the choice in itself is important since the tunisian pm wanted to give a clear message of the path he wishes his country to take. the eu stands for democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental principles. it stands for stability and security, in this case in the mediterranean region. tunisia is one of malta’s closest north african neighbours. what happens during this transitional period is not only important for my country but also for the region. considered a moderate state, i am optimistic that tunisia’s foreign policy will continue in the same direction. also i am hopeful that its domestic situation will improve. it is important that the eu is visible in its various aid and development programmes which can be addressed to tunisia. countries which embrace democratic values and contribute to stability and security in a region must be appreciated for their endeavours. that is why it is vital that the eu illustrates this appreciation both visibly and tangibly.
in writing. − it is sad that the eu has taken so long to address the political and social unrest in the middle east – that in tunisia and recently that in egypt. it was our duty as a union to put our political antennae out there and identify that a crisis was underway, and more importantly be proactive about it. instead we stood on the sidelines with passivity and complacency; refusing to read the signs that clearly indicated a situation of political and social turmoil, one which ultimately drove people to the streets in protest. we must find a way to truly relate and actively support the people in these countries. we must not do this in an imposing manner but in a way that will reassure these citizens that europe will actively support social stability, economic prosperity and freedom within their respective regions. having said that, just as with regard to the palestinian-israeli conflict, the eu has chosen not to take the necessary action. there is not one person or institution that speaks for europe with one voice. ultimately this issue must be addressed if we want to have any meaningful influence and relevance in international relations, especially in connection with a region as close to us as this one.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on campania, which calls on the italian government to treat the matter of the waste crisis in the region with the urgency and seriousness that it deserves. unfortunately, the commission had no other option but to withhold eu structural funds intended for campania, funds which will only be released once the waste management plan for campania becomes compliant and consistent with eu law. parliament has also called on the italian authorities to examine and remove ‘the 7 million tonnes of “ecobales” which have accumulated into stockpiles and to tackle the “illegal dumping of mixed and unidentified waste” in the region.’ at this time, it is imperative that we do not underestimate the legitimate concerns and complaints of the people of the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the basis that services account for 70% of all jobs and for all net job creation in the single european market and represent the most important source of foreign direct investment. the services directive creates the fundamental framework for a higher degree of free movement of service providers, strengthens the rights of consumers as recipients of services and enhances the availability of information, assistance and transparency with regards to service providers and their services. for these reasons, proper implementation of the services directive should remain a top priority for the commission. therefore the commission must work with member states to further improve administrative cooperation of mechanisms that fall within the scope of the directive, in particular by ensuring that member states put into place fully operative points of single contact. furthermore, i encourage the commission, together with the member states, to continue to develop the single market in services on the basis of the ‘mutual evaluation’ process set out in the services directive, in order to receive updated feedback from consumers, citizens and businesses with regard to national measures for implementation of the services directive in their respective member states; thereby ensuring that member states truly take ownership of the single market.
in writing. − in light of the impetus given by the commission and parliament to relaunch the single market, the need for a harmonised system for the issuance and regulation of patents has never been greater. it is for this reason that i voted in favour of this legislative resolution. under the current fragmented patent system, patents have to be translated into the language of each of the states for which they have been granted, imposing exorbitant costs on entrepreneurs, start-ups and other innovation-based smes for translations: obtaining a patent is thirteen times more expensive in the eu than in the us and eleven times more expensive than in japan. under the new system to be adopted by member states participating in enhanced cooperation in this area, the unitary patent will fall under a much more affordable translation regime consisting of solely the french, english and german languages; resulting in the cutting of costs. the introduction of a unitary and affordable patent system, albeit only in some eu member states, will play and important role in the furtherance of the single market, particularly by giving the union the boost in innovation and creativity with regard to the creation of goods and services which it so desperately needs.
the european court's judgment is not so much a conviction against belgium or greece as it is a conviction against the dublin regulation, because it was the dublin regulation that allowed belgium to transfer the afghan person back to greece, and this is not right. it is not right that the border countries should bear the burden alone because - let's face it - the border countries are not the police or the guards for the other countries of the european union. therefore, following the european court's ruling, it is now clear that when a european country transfers an asylum seeker back to another european country that is under great pressure, as greece was at the time, it is violating human rights and the european convention on human rights. some countries such as germany and the united kingdom have already recognised this and suspended transfers. however, what we need is for the dublin regulation to be changed today before tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all those who have contributed. this ruling is extremely interesting, but it does not completely undermine the dublin system as it is today. this more or less works and, independent of the ruling, already obliges member states to ensure that fundamental rights are respected. nevertheless, it points out some important issues and that is why we do need to reform the dublin convention and we need to improve it. that is why the commission has proposed improvements, and i am very happy to know that you are working on these and that you are also seeing the need to have some sort of emergency mechanism in this. we support you fully in that regard. we also need to accelerate our work to establish a common asylum system. most people here are agreed with that, and i am very grateful for the work you are doing. the best way to achieve that is to go on with the work, to publish the reports and to encourage the council to start negotiating. there are too many differences between the member states today and that is not sustainable. in a common union, with common values and a common application of international standards and conventions, there cannot be such differences as there are today. people need to be treated in a decent way. we need to ensure protection for the most vulnerable. we need to have efficient systems so that people are not kept in detention for months, and sometimes years. that is very painful for the individual and it is also very costly for society. we need to improve that. again, i can only encourage you and the council to keep on working on this. on greece, the commission is doing a lot to help. the greek government is working with its action plan. it is a very ambitious plan, but it has been clear from the beginning that this is not going to be solved over a weekend. there are long-standing problems. we are there to support and the fact that all member states are involved in the frontex operation, but have also offered different kinds of assistance – economic assistance or technical expertise, interpreters, administrative assistance – shows that there is true european solidarity. we need to help greece because greece is under extreme pressure and that is a european challenge as well. of course, greece has the main responsibility. it has done a lot, but needs to do more. i am not convinced that a fence or a wall is a solution because there are other reforms that are much more important. we are also working with easo, the new asylum support office in valletta. and we are working with unhcr. lately, turkey has shown itself to be constructive and cooperative. we have finalised the negotiations on a readmission agreement after eight years. i hope that the member states will accept that when we have the next council next week. on the figures that mrs wikström asked about, the figures i have for the period 2009 and 2010, show that there were 16 328 requests to take charge or take back migrants addressed by member states to greece. of that number, 12 638 (77%) were accepted. nevertheless, member states executed only 2 251 of these transfers, that is a bit less than 14%. i would like to thank you again for the support you are giving to the work we are trying to do with the asylum package. the legislative acts are on the table. let us keep on working together – the commission, parliament and the council – to get this done as soon as possible so that, finally, we have a common european asylum system.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls into question the urgent measures of the union in favour of italy and other member states affected by exceptional migratory flows.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this very timely debate on a situation that deserves all our attention. the commission is following the situation very closely and frontex has sent two experts to the scene. approximately 5 500 tunisian migrants are reported to have reached italian shores in the last couple of days but the numbers have dropped a little bit in the last 24 hours. those arriving are mostly men in their thirties, but there are also 34 women and 108 children; 27 facilitators of trafficking were identified. these people arriving on italian shores are causing exceptional pressure on the reception facilities of italy, particularly in lampedusa. last saturday we already started to have contact with the italian ministry of the interior and we have also received a formal request for eu assistance. we are ready to assist both italy and tunisia. this is a matter of importance for the whole eu, not just a bilateral issue. even before the last developments, the commission, together with frontex, started to identify what can be done in the short and medium term. the eu common response should be based on the principle of eu solidarity between member states; and we are ready to assist italy. but our approach should also be based on solidarity with tunisia and its democratic transition. this was also expressed by lady ashton when she visited the tunisian authorities in tunis yesterday, offering them political and financial support. to assist italy in these circumstances, we have identified a comprehensive series of concrete measures as well as quick financial assistance. financially, we are ready to mobilise extraordinary assistance, under the european refugee fund for 2011, in addition to the funding already earmarked for italy. this should cover payments for accommodation, infrastructure, material aid, medical care, social assistants, counselling with judicial administrative asylum procedures, legal aid, language assistance, etc. we can also mobilise quite quickly resources from eu funds such as the external borders fund and, if necessary, italy can ask the new european office for asylum in valetta to deploy teams of support to the national authorities dealing with the asylum requests. concerning the surveillance of external borders, a joint frontex operation could be set up and i am in contact with frontex. i know preparations at technical level are being made. as usual, such a joint debate will depend on member states’ voluntary contributions of equipment. i invite all member states to show their support. but let me reassure you on one point, referring to the debate we had just a few minutes ago: due to the different nature of sea/land border operations and a request to member states to participate in a new joint operation, this will not compete with their contribution to the operation that we now have at the greek land border. this is, of course, also a priority. i would like to underline that we must pay specific attention to vulnerable categories of persons in need of international protection. their needs must be taken into account and they must be able to access the special protection that they are entitled to, as provided by national and eu law. with these concrete actions i have now mentioned we are ready to meet and to engage with representatives of the italian authorities to agree on details of each of these actions and the next steps. of course, a medium-term strategy must also be further developed. in the particular context of migration flows, we need a combination of effective border management and a strategy for supporting democratic and economic transition. in the short term, the tunisian authorities should efficiently patrol the frontiers of their own country, at sea and along the coasts, to prevent smugglers, human traffickers and criminals who have escaped from prison from taking advantage of the situation. it is also important that tunisia takes back those who have reached the territory of eu member states and are not in need of international protection. looking at a more structured intervention, we should also explore the possibilities of better targeting eu assistance by promoting projects that are able to support income- and job-generating activities in the different regions of tunisia and i refer particularly to the southern parts of the country. more broadly, a coherent approach supporting political and economic development in tunisia needs to include possibilities for these people to come to the eu legally, as well as the exchange of goods, services and know-how. there is a wind blowing over the mediterranean as a result of these popular revolutions. this wind can bring many positive developments to tunisia, to other countries and to the eu. the current situation in lampedusa should not undermine our intention to offer assistance and support to these emerging democracies and the young generation that so passionately and peacefully has been able to achieve fundamental political changes.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the humanitarian emergency in italy and, in particular, on the island of lampedusa – because this is what it is, a humanitarian emergency – compels us to act urgently. i propose five steps. firstly, a veritable marshall plan for tunisia and egypt which would provide tangible help across the board but, at the same time, expect in return the full cooperation of the tunisian authorities in blocking their coasts so as not to allow further illegal emigration by sea. secondly, we need the urgent deployment of a frontex rabit mission – a rapid border intervention team. so, madam commissioner, we do not just need two frontex experts but a frontex mission that must be sent there now. thirdly, we need to give italy tangible help with the reception of the thousands of people who have landed in lampedusa. quite frankly, madam commissioner, i do not see how you can say that easo will send its experts when this eu office is still not yet operating, so we will have to do it in another manner. fourthly, we need to help with the process of repatriation: immediate repatriation of people who do not qualify for asylum protection. they should be sent back to tunisia where they came from. finally, we need to bear in mind that in the treaty we have article 80, which clearly states that our immigration policy should be based on the principle of solidarity and on the just sharing of responsibility. i think that it is about time that the commission implemented this article.
i shall be very punctual, not least because commissioner malmström has to leave parliament at 6 p.m. so we must allow her to answer your questions, which otherwise will remain unanswered.
yes, we have been talking here for years about this tragedy we have in the mediterranean and i am sorry to say that you have not heard. you have not heard because as i said before, solidarity is a trap when it comes to irregular immigration to europe. we have a tragedy today in lampedusa; a grave tragedy. now that lampedusa is full - and it is full - let us all go to italy and at least be comfortable. god bless, madam commissioner, that number came into malta; because we would have a much bigger tragedy, because whoever comes to malta, has to stay in malta. and malta cannot be fought. and with the funds we can't make malta the tiny prison that's huge to accommodate all these people in malta. so we want to see more real commitment from the member states, more solidarity, particularly from the northern european countries, which as the vice-president of this parliament has said to me before, we do not see anything in terms of solidarity from the european union member countries.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, ms oomen-ruijten, for the extraordinary work she has done on this report. the report recognises that, at a time when european union citizens are particularly vulnerable, it is essential that member states ensure that social protection, especially pensions, are healthier and more comforting for an ageing population, and ensure that they remain economically independent. in this respect, i would like to stress the importance of member states defining the criteria necessary to ensure a decent living for older people. this should be determined by the specific circumstances of each individual country and therefore the principle of subsidiarity should be respected. we welcome the invitation, however, for the commission to introduce guidelines and share best practice so that the decisions taken are in the best interest of those who will be directly affected. in many member states pension reform is vital if we are to achieve the objectives set out in the green paper, namely to have solid, adequate and sustainable pensions. reform can be difficult to implement, especially in these difficult times, and therefore the cost of reform must also be taken into account in the context of economic governance.
the eu and member states face one of their biggest challenges with regard to ensuring adequate and sustainable pension systems in europe. given that a large percentage of citizens are highly dependent on their pension schemes for their livelihood, i would like to emphasise the importance of the state-financed pension schemes based on the principle of solidarity. in multifaceted situations with various traditions and types of pension scheme, and given that the main responsibility for pension reform rests within the remit of member states, it is impossible to apply the principle of one-size-fits-all. the eu can, however, add value by providing coordination between the various pension schemes and sharing best practice. any review of pension systems should be carried out in a transparent way, protecting consumers’ needs and informing citizens of their rights with regard to the various pension schemes and the risks involved, especially those related to cross-border mobility. pension systems should be able to withstand any potential budgetary and demographic pressures on member states without putting undue pressure on ordinary citizens. all this needs to be addressed through the prism of the demographic and socio-economic challenges of the future, such as the development of atypical employment, a growing female labour force, changes in family structures, and youth unemployment.
when i look at the situation in albania, i am very sorry because i remember the history of the same countries in the early 1980s, that is, thirty years ago, when in malta we had a similar situation: a lot of division, tension, political turmoil, threats and even violence. it was a suffocating environment that did not make me proud of my country. i also think that the citizens in albania are also very sorry about the current situation in their country and also do not feel proud of what is happening. i am very proud of the countries today because we have created a stable, democratic country and, above all, a member of the european family. the political environment is completely different. my wish is that albania too reaches the goal of becoming a stable country and part of the european family, but it is clear that as long as the two main parties in this country continue to push themselves, albania cannot reach this goal. it's sad but it's the reality. the european union is doing its part and we have just removed the visa requirement for albanians, but albania must do its part too and to do this requires all parties, both the government and the opposition, to adopt a different policy; a policy of dialogue, maturity and responsibility towards the albanian people; a policy that seeks not division but unity. we are not here to tell the albanians and albania what to do. we are here to tell them that the decision whether albania takes its place in the european family is theirs.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me stress that eu law protects the confidentiality of electronic communications. it prohibits listening, tapping, storage or other kinds of interception or surveillance of communications without the consent of the users concerned. apart from the legally-authorised recording of certain communications in the course of lawful business practice such as commercial transactions, further interception practice, such as wiretapping is subject to specific conditions. the conditions for exceptional interception practice must be provided by legislation and be necessary, appropriate and proportionate within a democratic society to safeguard public objectives, such as public security or combating criminal offences. the general principles of eu law must also be respected. for the commission, bulgarian legislation seems to comply with these requirements. the law on special investigative means and the law on electronic communications already provide appropriate mechanisms for legal authorisation, oversight, handling and access to personal data, and thus ensure respect of fundamental rights. the issue at stake here concerns the enforcement of legal obligations. it is the responsibility of the bulgarian authorities to ensure that legal and procedural guarantees enshrined in the bulgarian legislation on special investigative means are respected. the commission highlights the necessity for member states to respect fundamental rights and procedural guarantees in compliance with the rule of law when implementing eu law. the commission understands that the bulgarian authorities took the necessary steps to check the legality of the deployment of special investigative means and to establish whether the information published in the press resulted from abusive use of special investigative means. the commission, while not having received any related complaints on the interception of electronic communications in bulgaria, will continue to monitor the current situation with a view to ensuring compliance with eu law.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am very surprised by this debate, which was not even raised in the competent committee, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, before it came here. the measure which is being attacked in this debate is a legitimate legal instrument which can be used in the fight against crime. if anything, it is proof that bulgaria is serious in taking up the great challenge of fighting corruption and organised crime, which is something we have long asked it to do. the measures foreseen in the law can be exercised in a legitimate manner and we expect them to be exercised in a legitimate manner. the law foresees that phone tapping can only be requested by public prosecutors or by law enforcement agencies, such as the police and the national security agency, if they suspect that the person in question is involved in criminal activity and after there is authorisation by a judge. the law on the use of special intelligence lays down a purpose limitation, stipulating that these measures can only be used for the purpose of fighting organised crime or for protecting national security. the information collected must be kept confidential and must only be used for the purposes outlined in the law. there is also established parliamentary scrutiny of this legal system. so it is clear that there are safeguards, especially safeguards on the privacy of citizens and respect of data protection, and there is no question, as i see it, of it being in breach of the law. therefore, attacking this instrument at this point would be tantamount to an irresponsible attack against the effort of a member state to try to fight organised crime and corruption. this attack damages bulgaria greatly, as this fight is of utmost importance for this country in the light of its cooperation and verification mechanism and also of its prospective entry into the schengen area. the only plausible explanation for this debate therefore seems to be that it is politically motivated.
in writing. − smes form an essential part of the backbone of the european economy and are the main drivers for job creation, economic growth, social cohesion and innovation in europe. the participation and active role of smes are imperative for the advancement of the competitiveness of the single market. following the financial crisis, it has become evident that the european financial markets are currently unable to provide smes with adequate finance mechanisms. innovative and growth-oriented small businesses need to raise equity capital from external sources, because they either do not have their own financial resources or cannot access bank credit facilities. a more business-conducive environment for micro and craft enterprises should be supported through the promotion of high-quality support services, better legal and fiscal measures, and social protection for new entrepreneurs. more adequate and sustainable financial instruments should guarantee that smes have better access to capital. the commission should redouble its efforts to remove red tape from existing eu support schemes and facilitate cross-border banking, by removing all existing obstacles to the usage of competing clearing and settlement systems and by applying common rules on trading. the commission should conduct a comparative analysis of what is actually being made available to smes in the equity investment market and what their actual needs are.
we need three things from now on. first of all we need immediate assistance during the transition period to help egypt, as we need to help tunisia, move towards a full and stable democracy. the second; we need a long-term plan - i call it the marshall plan - for every country that, like tunisia and egypt, is going to go down the path of democracy, to show that we are there to help those who have chosen democracy, and that democracy suits you. finally, we need a complete review of our mediterranean policy. we must appreciate and admit that our mediterranean policy was not visionary enough to understand and appreciate what could have happened in the arab countries, and what did in fact happen.
in writing. – it is essential to define the role of the eu in the turmoil taking place in many arab countries in general and egypt in particular. the turmoil has taken everyone by surprise and it does not seem that any contingency plan was made for such an eventuality, which is not localised but widespread. the socio-political base provoking the changes in the arab world is not dissimilar across those countries which are now in transition to what we hope will be a democratic environment. baroness ashton is on record as stating that the eu has a ‘democratic calling’ to listen to people who want change – and we are witnessing a changing world because what will happen in the arab countries will have an effect on political, social and economic issues worldwide. one particularly important issue is that of security and stability, and there is no doubt that the ‘democratic calling’ concerns countries mostly considered as being allied with others that currently have democratic political systems. at this point, it is not known where the democratic transitional process will lead or what position will be taken by the traditional democracies and especially the eu.
mr president, in the light of the announcement made by the commission today, it is clear that this debate has been overtaken by events and that there is no longer any reason whatsoever to proceed with the vote on the resolutions tomorrow. i believe that those who expressed genuine concern about the media law in hungary were entitled to a response. what i find worrying is that this chamber is increasingly engaging in crusades against individual member states – that coincidentally happen to have epp governments – before the commission has fully investigated the matter, let alone reached its conclusions. worse than that: in this case, this was done despite the fact that we had a clear undertaking from the hungarian authorities at the highest level that, should the commission raise any concerns about this law, they would be prepared to change it, as they did. what exactly was the point of this debate? what is the point of the resolutions tomorrow, if not political instrumentalisation? the epp stands firm in its commitment to respect for human rights and the rule of law, regardless of the member state concerned. there is no question about that. however, it is not willing to single out individual member states and condemn them summarily before the due process of law has been completed. once it has been completed, we should respect it. when this issue first came up last month, i said that politicising this issue was not just attacking a member state, but was also undermining the eu presidency. today, i feel that we have also undermined our own institution. that cannot be right. i sincerely appeal to all groups to withdraw the resolutions that are up for vote tomorrow – not suspend them, not postpone them, but withdraw them – because there is no longer any basis for proceeding with this vote.
in writing. − the eu and particularly the european parliament took too long to respond to and address the warning signs of political and social turmoil in egypt – leading ultimately to the geopolitical debacle of the last three weeks – and this in relation to a region that is very close to it and despite the fact that stability in the mediterranean basin is essential for political well-being, economic strength and security in europe itself. at this point there is a dire need for strong leadership from the european institutions: leadership that must be coupled with a pragmatic, integrated and holistic approach geared to restoring stability and security to the region. it is up to the eu to be proactive and aid in egypt’s political transition to a democratic system of governance.
thank you, mr president, and thank you to the rapporteur for reminding us that the internal market needs to be more efficient and effective to work better. with all this, this tax issue, i think that after we are just feeling the exit from the crisis, i think it would be wrong to catch up and start introducing taxes. why do i say that? because the market already has at present such burdens as 'new capital requirements' and 'new deposit guarantee schemes' that we are not even feeling their effects yet. and so if we agree that a global tax will be almost impossible because it cannot be that europe alone plays a role in this sense, i think that the european tax also we must see what its consequences will be, how it will affect the labour market, how we will create more jobs, how we will, as europe, be competitive with international markets and so my party, which i represent here, is not closing the door either, although we do not agree that to solve the crisis a tax will be introduced, let's say let's see an impact, let's see studies, let's see how the european economic sector will be affected, and then if it agrees, yes we will introduce. but at the moment we agree that new taxes are unacceptable to us.
in writing. − the report on ‘innovative financing’ sends a strong message to the financial institutions, and in particular to the banking industry, that it is time to further regulate the financial sector, holding banks administratively responsible and legally accountable for their negligent actions and ineffective risk management practices. it has become evident that the financial services market is often incapable of regulating itself sufficiently and that the quality of consumer protection and safeguards in the financial services sector require tangible and strong improvement, particularly with regard to the monitoring and supervisory aspects. the current situations might be used as a window of opportunity to strengthen the financial services industry and to restore citizens’ and consumers’ confidence in the sector, as they are now the ones footing the bill for the big blunders and bailing out the major financial institutions. having said that, the commission should first evaluate the impact which a tax on financial transactions will have on the european economy, because any future proposals should not be based solely on decisions taken on impulse to address the buzzword of the moment, but should consist of a pragmatic approach that will prove to withstand the stresses of time and will restore the trust of the european citizens in the financial markets.
in writing. − i supported the podimata report which includes a number of good ideas regarding a global financial transaction tax. the truth is that much of the financial sector, particularly the investment banks, has still to reform itself following the flaws that were revealed by the financial crisis. even the governor of the bank of england, mervyn king, admitted last week that the cost of the austerity measures being taken in britain, and across europe, were being borne by ‘people who were utterly blameless’ while the financial sector had gone back to a ‘business as usual’ mentality. it is right that the private sector should pay its share for the consequences of the financial crisis and provide for any future bail-out given the existence of many banks which are still deemed ‘too big to fail’. the onus is now on the imf, and the european commission, to assess the positives and negatives of a global financial transactions tax.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on reducing health inequalities, which addresses the various gaps present in healthcare throughout the eu-27. the rapporteur highlights the fact that the disparity in the health of citizens throughout the union is in many cases due to the differences in opportunity, in access to services and material resources, social background, income and education; and also that such differences have been exacerbated further following the financial crisis. i am in agreement with various issues raised in this report – one being the suggestion that the commission collaborate with member states in the promotion of best practices on pricing and reimbursement of the cost of medicines, with the aim of optimising affordability and reducing inequalities in access to medicines; another being for the eu and member states to recognise male violence against women as a public health issue; and also the calling on member states to adapt their health systems to the needs of the most vulnerable in society by developing methods for setting the fees charged by healthcare professionals for guaranteeing access to care for all patients. however, i am not in agreement with references made in the report which support the promotion of abortion.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this report, especially since it promotes – in a very determined and concrete way – the fundamental principle of equality between women and men. it is disappointing that, despite numerous efforts and studies on the subject, some national lawmakers are still neglecting the destructive effects of discrimination, further aggravating gender inequalities and endangering fulfilment of the lisbon strategy goals. in light of the persisting gap between men and women in terms of employment rates, working hours, wages and access to management positions, i call on member states to better implement anti-discrimination and anti-harassment practices. it is necessary to engage stakeholders at grass-roots level, through information campaigns, use of ngos, and also by more formal instruments such as including special provisions in collective agreements and national legislation relating to gender equality. i am in agreement with the various issues highlighted in the report, such as strengthening inclusion measures in favour of women and ensuring their presence in positions of responsibility, promoting employment and fair distribution of income, creating higher-quality jobs, ensuring access to high-quality public services and improving social welfare. having said that, however, i cannot support paragraphs which make reference to the promotion of abortion.
what is happening in the arab world, in all the countries of the arab world, is a beautiful dream coming true. but to prevent this dream from turning into a nightmare, we need to do our part to ensure that these peoples not only get rid of their dictators, but also get rid of dictatorships. and so they have to go through a transition phase that needs our massive help. it is true that we have all had a relationship with these countries and their regimes. however, once the shocking violence we saw began, we all joined together in a single voice against the violence and against the regime that was perpetrating it. the next step is to stop violence, and to stop it not just with words, but with deeds. every day that passes and violence continues, we are allowing more killing and more blood. we need to strengthen the european union's humanitarian presence. we are already doing it, and cathy ashton is doing it well, but we need to step up humanitarian aid much more, both with the libyan people, and with people fleeing the regime to tunisia and egypt. and if there is an inflow to europe, we also need to be prepared for it. it is easy to say that we should open our doors to refugees from libya, but it remains to be seen how much responsibility we will all shoulder if this happens.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i do not accept this big crisis idea. i have been very clear with you, mr cohn-bendit, about exactly what my mandate is. the recognition of a government is the recognition that is given by the european council. the mandate of the high representative is to come forward with the ideas that are put to her, to discuss those with the institutions beforehand, and to put forward, on friday to the european council, the views that are being expressed. it is for the member states to take the decision. i will go from this to discuss with the president of the european council –whose representative is here – and i will discuss this with the president of the commission. we will also take the views, through the institutions, ready for friday and the foreign affairs council which meets tomorrow. i am not avoiding that, but it is absolutely right and proper that member states take the decision on recognising a government. i hear very loudly what parliament says. let this not be a crisis. i am not avoiding anything. i am simply telling you that the way we should do this is to do it properly, for the benefit of these people and the people of libya.
i have received six motions for resolutions1 pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2011.
in writing. – it is unfortunate that europe has drawn few lessons from its past. the union's delayed response to libya is proof that europe to date maintains an incoherent and fragmented approach towards the southern mediterranean. if europe holds onto this mindset there is the possibility that a humanitarian crisis of this magnitude will reoccur. europe must act on two fronts: 1) political and humanitarian response: to ensure that the legitimate aspirations of the libyan people are achieved through home-grown democracy, whereby the regime steps aside to allow the people of the region to actively bring about the country’s transition to democracy; 2) migratory flows: presently, the eventuality of large flows of migration from the region is a secondary concern, yet it must be addressed. the union has in the past acknowledged it, but failed to put any concerted and comprehensive plan into motion. this is why i call for the creation of a marshall-type plan, one which will include an integrated immigration policy, based on the principles of solidarity and burden-sharing, whereby all member states acknowledge that no single country will alone be able to tackle the great and complex difficulties brought about by large migratory flows, particularly in the case of smaller member states.
in writing. – i congratulate my colleague ana gomes on her resolution. however, i am disappointed by the lack of support from the ppe for an agreement urging the eu to prepare a plan and equip itself to cope with the aftermath of the libyan crisis, particularly concerning migration policy and relocation. we do not even have a plan a, let alone a plan b. to date, a small island member state close to libya has helped in all the ways it could: malta. thirteen thousand people of 89 different nationalities were evacuated by malta’s own boats and its own airlines, putting both at great risk. the maltese did this not because of any eu legislation and certainly not because of frontex. instead, they acted on humanitarian grounds and waived visa requirements. it was a principle of solidarity. whether or not we are facing an immigration influx of biblical proportions, we cannot tell. for sure it will be large and very significant for malta. the maltese people ask not for an application of the dublin ii or frontex regulations. they demand solidarity and a relocation policy based on the principle of burden-sharing. it is very disappointing and incomprehensible to see the ppe shirking this responsibility. 1vedasi processo verbale.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, in today’s interconnected world, no country can remain unaffected by what is happening to its neighbours. just look at the events in north africa and just look at the debate which has just been concluded in this house, and i think that what is true in politics is definitely true in economics as well. the crisis has shown just how great the risk of contagion is – particularly for the countries in the euro area – when one member state finds itself in serious economic difficulty and how quickly this spreads to the rest of the countries. last year we showed our determination to do whatever it takes to defend the single currency. temporary instruments like the european financial stability facility and the european financial stabilisation mechanism have proved their worth, but the time has come for a permanent solution. so as a complement to our reinforced system of economic governance, which was launched this january with the first annual growth survey, we need to set up a robust institutional and financial mechanism to deal with possible future crises. that is why the commission supports a limited change to article 136 of the treaty. i know that some of you are disappointed with this approach. i have to say, the commission shares your disappointment. like both rapporteurs, mr brok and mr gualtieri, – who i very much thank for their excellent cooperation on these files – and, i am sure, most of parliament, we would have preferred the union to be fully in charge of this permanent mechanism. but we understand why members of the euro area opted for an intergovernmental mechanism at this stage. rest assured, however, that the commission will be fully involved in work to set up the future stability mechanism with the finance ministers of the euro area and we stand ready to bring our expertise to the management of the stability fund if required, just as we did for greece and just as we did for ireland. at the same time, the commission will be vigilant in ensuring that the eu’s competences are not affected in any way. in particular, although european heads of state and government agreed that article 122, the legal basis for the european financial stabilisation mechanism, should no longer be used to maintain financial stability in the euro area as a whole, president barroso did not – as you know – associate himself with this declaration. therefore we are not speaking about the european council conclusions, but the statement of the heads of state and government, in this respect. the commission considers it to be a purely political declaration that does not affect the eu’s competences. the commission will also take whatever measures are necessary, both legislative and otherwise, to ensure that this new mechanism operates in full harmony with the eu’s responsibility for coordination and surveillance of economic and financial policies in all member states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − we all agree that we need a permanent financial mechanism for the euro area countries. the function of the mechanism is to mobilise funding under strict conditions for the benefit of euro area member states that are facing major financial problems in order to safeguard the stability of the euro as a whole. the point is that although everyone agrees with these words, this definition does not find its way into what is proposed by the council. we have a proposal that specifies what this mechanism will be funded for and by whom, but not for whom. parliament is doing what the council has not done: clearly specifies the beneficiaries, which should be the members of all states and not of the whole area. what if a small country in crisis is not big enough to threaten the health of the euro? under the council's draft there is no legal guarantee that it will have access to the mechanism. small member states would be contributing to the fund without access if they suffer a financial crisis. this is unacceptable and would be a breach of the principle of solidarity which the european union embraces: it is like being in an insurance company that does not pay claims. i therefore welcome the report which clearly states that no member state whose currency is the euro and which contributes to the fund is excluded for reasons of size or size. secondly, it is the issue of interest rates that should not be made loans at punitive rates as we have in the case of ireland and greece, and the council should look at this subject through paragraph 14 on this subject under the example of the commission's programme of balance of payments facility and macro-financial assistance. it is worrying that the approach is only intergovernmental and on such an important subject. the commission shall be involved in making regulations governing, implementing and monitoring this mechanism. i am therefore very pleased with the work done by parliament on this proposal and it is important that the council accepts these proposals which have been agreed in both parliament's committees.
in writing. − today parliament voted on its calendar for 2012 and 2013. for the first time in my experience as an mep the amendments were approved by the majority. this means that meps will not have to move to strasbourg 12 times a year, but 11 times to incorporate 12 sessions in strasbourg. the monthly ‘travelling circus’ from brussels to strasbourg has become synonymous with waste, both in terms of the eur 200 million spent on it, and the 20 000 tonnes of co2 emitted. meps cannot decide where they sit but they do have the power to decide how many times parliament must relocate from one city to the other. around 350 meps supported the amendment that would sandwich two of our sessions into one week, thus saving the costs, time and energy of the return journeys. it will also send a positive signal to our electorate. i also hope that this will serve for an eventual calendar in which 12 sessions will be held in 6 weeks. i disagree, however, that the calendar of 2013 was put to vote together in this plenary. it is clearly a manoeuvre not to further extend this procedure during this legislature.
two weeks ago, this parliament adopted a resolution, which was politically very courageous, calling, among other things, for the introduction of a no-fly zone over libya. only a week ago, we met again in this house - the resolution had not yet been passed in the united nations security council - and there was a sense of almost desperation in this house, as we neared the collapse of benghazi, and then the collapse of the revolution towards democracy in libya. one day later, last thursday, the resolution was passed, and now we are four days after the implementation of this united nations resolution on the no fly zone. i think, mr president, that this important resolution should continue to be implemented, and implemented in order to continue to help the libyan people, to protect them from the massacre that was being carried out against them, and also to help them in the process towards a democratic transition. we must also do two other things. first of all, we must continue, in a massive way, our humanitarian aid to the libyan people and also to the refugees fleeing libya, especially to tunisia and egypt. and we have to do something else as well: we must prepare ourselves for the possibility of a further influx of refugees into the countries of the european union. because, after all, this is not just the responsibility of the mediterranean countries of the european union, but the responsibility of us all.
madam president, first of all when i hear some – not all – of my colleagues who are taking part in this debate, they refer to migration as something which is not currently taking place, but as something which is going to take place. a human tragedy is actually taking place as we speak in this house. in many cases we are talking about whether we agree or disagree, but one thing that we should be in agreement about is that this tragedy, which is on our doorstep – a few hundred kilometres from the european union’s southern frontier – is taking place right now, and will continue to grow. yet we continue to debate, even when there is a tool – council directive 2001/55/ec – which, on a recommendation from the commission, can be set in motion by the council. how are we going to measure whether the influx is high, not high or high enough when it is all over? the european union has to decide whether it wants to act or react. we react when things have already occurred. let us not be the man of yesterday. let us be today’s institution.
madam president, a few days ago eu leaders announced that they stand ready to show concrete solidarity with those member states most affected by migratory pressures. well that time has come, because the mass movement has now hit the european union. we now call on the european council to honour its word. and for solidarity to be concrete, it must mean that all member states shoulder responsibility for the displaced people who are fleeing libya towards europe. we have a tool already; we just need to use it. it is the solidarity mechanism envisaged in directive 2001/55/ec, which does two things. firstly, it gives temporary protection to all displaced people who reach the eu. secondly, it puts the responsibility to host them on all member states and not just on the country that they happen to arrive in. the mechanism is triggered by a council decision stating that the mass influx exists. however, it must come on a proposal from the commission – from you, madam commissioner. there is no doubt that there is a mass exodus leaving libya. more than 400 000 people have fled libya mostly to tunisia and egypt but also now to eu countries. last week, more than 800 people, mostly somalis and eritreans, arrived in malta in just twenty-four hours. proportionally speaking, this has the same impact as 120 000 arriving in france in just one day. surely this would qualify as a mass influx. so it is not the numbers in absolute terms that we need to look at, but the numbers in relative terms – their relative impact on the country of arrival. i really appeal to you, madam commissioner, to take the political leadership and make this proposal. i also appeal to the council to honour its word and show concrete solidarity.
in writing. – the situation in libya at present is very uncertain. what is certain, however, is that it has brought about a humanitarian crisis. as this report describes, armed conflicts, especially when they involve human rights abuses, give rise to huge increases in migratory flows to neighbouring countries. in view of the massive proportions these could lead to, the eu’s frontex programme cannot be the best tool to deal with such levels of migration. the eu must, as of now, set up and plan a proper response, including a detailed burden-sharing action plan to help refugees resettle in a coordinated manner. this should be based on the solidarity clause contained in article 80 of the tfeu. one could quibble about what particular number of refugees could be defined as an ‘emergency’. however, we need to have a detailed plan laid out, with clear thresholds on a country-by-country basis, so that eu governments and the commission are both ready and well prepared to deal with an imminent crisis. as a maltese mep, it is very disappointing that the commission is apparently so under-prepared to deal with a crisis that has long been inevitable.
people fleeing the war in libya have now started to arrive in europe, especially in lampedusa and malta. and in countries, people have two fears: first, the fear that they do not know how many people will arrive. this is a fear that we do not have an answer to because we do not know how many will arrive. the second fear is the fear of not knowing if europe will help this time. and this is a fear that we can and should answer because in fact there is a solidarity mechanism that is already in our law, in directive no 55 of the year 2001. what we need to do is use it. the commission now seems to be giving two reasons why it did not use it. firstly, there is no majority in the council of ministers. i would appeal to president barroso not to give us that reason. the commission shall take the political lead, the political initiative to make a proposal for this solidarity mechanism to be operated. the commission also says that there are not yet enough numbers. but be careful. the numbers may be too small for the europe as a whole but too large for one country alone to be hosting them. i therefore appeal directly to president barroso to use the solidarity mechanism and to president van rompuy to tell the council of ministers to give concrete solidarity.
mr president, in may 2010 parliament voted for the single market to be perceived as a holistic, unified project, finding an equilibrium between an open sme-friendly economy and a citizen’s social and basic rights. this should be factored into all single market legislation, regaining, in the process, citizens’ trust. however, implementing and adopting the many excellent proposals found in the various reports and in the act itself is a difficult task. we have to ensure that a revitalised, redefined single market does happen and does not get sidelined. ultimately, it is up to the institutions to politically support the single market and give it the necessary momentum and leadership, which is sadly lacking at times. in this respect, therefore, i am proposing that one of the permanent features of the single market forum should be to carry out an annual appraisal and audit to gauge the state of play of the single market, primarily whether the objectives and aims set out in the act have been achieved or not, thus convincing european citizens that the single market truly represents their interests and aspirations.
in writing. − with reference to the guillaume report, although in principle this represents a significant step towards the realisation of a common asylum policy system for europe, i voted against the group on a number of clauses as i felt that they did not reflect realistically the complexities and problems faced by my country, malta, which is a regular recipient of migrants. having said that, however, when it came to the final vote, i voted in favour of the whole report which ultimately contained a number of very good clauses addressing member states’ needs and preoccupations. one example is the call for the immediate mobilisation of financial, administrative and technical support for member states receiving disproportionately large numbers of asylum applications. such an initiative is essential for all member states, but especially so for countries like malta – often burdened with responsibilities and complexities, due to the reception of large inflows of migrants, which it cannot shoulder on its own.
in writing. − with regard to the fernandes report, even though i would in principle have voted in favour of amendments 13 and 15, i abstained for a technical reason. this is that, essentially, the salary of an mep is regulated by the statute for meps, whereby a revision or update of meps’ salaries is achieved by amending the statute for members and not through a vote in plenary with regard to the eu annual budget of any particular year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2009 commission discharge because it gives an assurance of better management of payments in cases where funds are misused. i could not support some of the paragraphs from the report, which referred to the forthcoming review of the staff regulations of officials of the european communities. the reasons behind my decision are that revision of the staff regulations goes beyond the remit of the committee on budgetary control and does not belong in the 2009 discharge report, but falls instead within the competence of the legal affairs committee, which will be dealing with these issues in the near future. i believe that we have to take an overall approach and make a comprehensive review of the regulations as a whole, rather than a fragmented one with various reports addressing various regulations.
in writing. − on the discharge report of the european parliament for 2009, i voted in line with my political group against paragraph 143 on airmiles. the same concept is already covered by paragraph 199 on which i voted in favour. paragraph 119 is more comprehensive and more practical for implementation purposes.
mr president, the schengen zone is indeed a very important and visible achievement for european citizens and the message is coming out clearly from this chamber today that we need to fight together not just to preserve it, but to strengthen it further. we rely on the european commission to achieve that and the european parliament will be behind the commission in strengthening schengen, but if there are two lessons that we have learnt in respect of what happened in recent weeks they are these. first of all, the internal borders within schengen depend on a common strategy, a common concern about our external borders. if our external borders are weak then we will have problems on our internal borders and we need to look at that. italy felt under pressure with 25 000 people; it gave them a temporary permit, they moved to france. france felt under pressure and it re-erected national borders. so the pressure went onto the internal borders and therefore the external borders are a common concern. secondly, schengen needs solidarity and solidarity is also about sharing the responsibility – burden-sharing – and sharing responsibility is also relative to the size of the member state. on the current system, people who arrive in one country remain in the country where they arrive because our laws, including the dublin regulation, ensure that they have to remain in the first country of arrival. this clearly needs to change because it is no longer tenable. one thousand people arriving in the smallest member state, my country malta, are equivalent, population-wise, to over one million people arriving in the entire european union. so yes, 25 000 people are nothing, they are a drop in the ocean for the entire union but 1000 people arriving in the southernmost member state are a lot. we need therefore to link schengen with solidarity; schengen needs solidarity. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i thank the member for his question. one of the conditions for joining the schengen zone is, indeed, strengthening external borders. precisely because they are a common concern, it is the responsibility of all the member states to ensure that the external borders are strong. once you fulfil those conditions, then you can join schengen. this is precisely what countries such as bulgaria and romania have done, and it is precisely why we have helped greece, by means of a frontex mission there on the turkish-greek border. so, yes, this goes to show that strengthening external borders is also a common concern.
, in writing. – the aggressive positions taken by the french and italian political leaders with regard to the ventimiglia incident have nothing to do with the schengen agreement, but are rather an exercise to impress their own citizens. the 20 000 or so migrants were, in the main, economic migrants seeking jobs and better economic opportunities. rather than suffer a brain-drain as its best and brightest people seek economic migration, what tunisia requires is eu financial assistance for economic development programmes promoting work for the young and the unemployed. however, this should not distract us from dealing with the real problem of how best to cope with the migration of genuine asylum seekers from north africa, who are or will be fleeing from war-torn countries. for this we do not need the return of national border controls. the principles of the eu include freedom of movement and solidarity between member states, and we should not take retrograde steps in that regard. we have provision in the treaties for establishing a single eu asylum system and proper burden-sharing between member states. instead of stoking up right-wing populism, we should be working as europeans to put the necessary legislation in place.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for the reason that a renewed economic and social approach with regard to the management, allocation and utilisation of the spectrum should be adopted. particular focus should be directed towards the formulation of regulation which ensures greater spectrum efficiency, better frequency planning and safeguards against anti-competitive behaviour and the taking of anti-social measures with regards to the usage of the spectrum. as highlighted in the single market act, the establishment of a radio spectrum programme is key for the enhancement of the digital society and the development of technology. i believe that the commission should take a holistic approach towards the proper coordination of the management of the spectrum across the eu in view of the fact that this public good is a scarce and finite resource and is crucial to the furtherance of consumers, citizens and businesses within the single market.
in writing. − the worst impact of the recent financial crisis has been on ordinary consumers. various eu governments have used taxpayers’ money to bail out some banks that had managed their affairs in an irresponsible way. were it not for the support of taxpayers, such banks would have collapsed with disastrous effect on different sectors of the economy in various member states. now that the worst phase of this financial crisis is over, banks are still not acting, or conducting their business, in the best interest of consumers. instances of mis-selling of financial services products, and lack of sufficient support by banks for personal customers and small businesses that find themselves facing temporary liquidity problems, show that more tangible action should be taken by regulators to ensure that operators in the financial services industry support their clients and generally offer better protection to consumers. therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for the zver report. in order for the eu 2020 ‘youth on the move’ (yom) flagship initiative to be successful, eu institutions must create a pragmatic, comprehensive and wide-ranging policy supported by all member states which focuses on connecting the areas of vocational education, professional qualifications, life-long learning and apprenticeship to the labour market so as to ensure that each member state will truly take ownership of the eu’s education system. yom is about making the transition from learning and training into the labour market easier for europe’s young people. one of the goals of this policy initiative is to reduce the number of early school leavers and increase the proportion of people with tertiary education qualifications, the reason being that early school leaving runs counter to the dynamics and needs of the labour market and is also in direct conflict with europe’s economic and social sustainability in general. consequently, all labour market players, including those from the professional sectors, businesses, trade unions, ministries and public employment services should engage in a structured dialogue on how to guarantee professional integration of the young, promote formal/informal training and ultimately develop an education system in the eu which is able to provide career security for our young people.
in writing. − i am in agreement with the merkies report because i strongly believe that innovation and creativity are key to the economic recovery of the union and that the importance of converting the union’s scientific technological breakthroughs into new goods and services cannot be overstated. moreover, i am convinced that in a post-crisis europe, any single market strategy has to be formulated in such a way as to maintain and enhance social cohesion, ensure market integrity and economic sustainability and foster innovation. this is why i endorse the commission’s initiative for a european social innovation pilot which ensures that innovative ideas for the creation of products, services and business models are linked to and, more importantly, meet the social needs of the eu’s citizens and consumers.
in writing. – whoever the next managing director of the imf is, he or she will have a huge task. the coming years are likely to be dominated by major international financial and economic governance reforms. there are many excellent candidates, and i hope the selection is based on merit, not politics. the reality is that the eu punches below its weight at global level, be it at the g20, imf or wto. it does not speak with one coherent voice, but with many voices. this is a serious shortcoming that particularly affects smaller member states, who lack the diplomatic muscle of the larger nations. provided policy positions were agreed transparently and democratically, we would benefit from the eu playing a more active role in reshaping the international monetary and financial system. the committee on economic affairs is currently working on a report on global economic governance, which i hope will lead to commission proposals on improvements to the eu’s external representation in this field. the eu is an economic bloc representing over 450 million people, with a currency that is the world’s second international reserve currency. but if we do not take it seriously, neither will the rest of the world.
madam president, this debate on the hungarian constitution today is flawed for two main reasons. it singles out one member state out of 27, and it concerns a national issue which falls within the sovereignty of member states. first of all, if we are going to discuss the content of a constitution, we should not single out one constitution of one member state. we should, if anything, debate the constitutions of each and every member state. some of the elements which are being contested can in fact be found in a number of other constitutions in other member states, and yet we are only debating one constitution in one member state. this is wrong. secondly, one has to ask what power, what competence, do we have to bring the issue of a national constitution to the european parliament in the first place? member states have a sovereign competence for establishing their own national constitutions, and in this case we should respect the right of the hungarian people to determine their own constitution adopted by their democratically-elected national parliament. the debate we are having today on the content of this constitution should, if anything, be held amongst hungarian people, and not in this house. whether we like it or not, whether we disagree or agree with this national constitution, we must respect the sovereignty and the hierarchy of law, otherwise we would be setting a dangerous precedent. so when we single out a member state, and when we try to act outside our competence, we send a wrong signal. we would stand accused of political instrumentalisation, and we would be undermining the trust of citizens in our own institution. we should not go down this dangerous road.
author of the report. − if there was a european tool that helped us to push national borders for justice, it is surely the european arrest warrant. it helped us to break down national borders because it sent a clear message that if someone commits a criminal offence in one country, they can no longer flee to another country from that offence and from prosecution for that offence. in other words, it must be clear that the european arrest warrant is a good tool, a tool that has produced positive results. it is true at the same time that it has some defects. the deficiencies arise when this warrant is used for offences that are too minor to justify the use of this warrant. i do not claim that a european arrest warrant should be issued if someone is caught stealing two tyres from a car in another country, as they have, because we are using it disproportionately and we are diminishing rather than increasing people's trust in a good and important tool. so what we need is to see where the flaws in the use, in the application of this mandate are without breaking the tool that gives us this mandate. that is why we are raising this parliamentary question so that the commission can help us understand how this mandate has been applied in recent years. how it has been applied should lead us to conclude whether it should be changed to ensure that it is used properly.
deputising for the author. − madam president, two and a half years ago i presented to this plenary a report on misleading business directories. the message that this parliament gave was clear: that there is a serious problem with fraudulent practices by misleading business directories, that tens of thousands of our small businesses, voluntary organisations, and even charities, are falling victim to these fraudulent practices, that we need a concerted approach to stop once and for all such deceptive practices. two and a half years later, unfortunately, we are back here in plenary to discuss the same subject because there has been a serious lack of action to combat the problem of misleading business directories. this is not acceptable. let me remind colleagues what we are talking about here. basically what this involves is that a misleading business directory sends out a form, which appears to simply request people to update their own personal details or their business details, in return for what appears to be a free entry, a free listing in the business directory. at first glance, one does not notice any cost, any payment that might result from filling in this form. however, after submitting the form, victims receive a letter demanding payment of eur 1 000 per year for three consecutive years. if they do not pay, the misleading business directories resort to what are essentially bullying tactics: harassing telephone calls, threats of legal action and pursuit by debt collectors. the most worrying thing is that such illegal tactics are being used under the very noses of the authorities of several member states, who are well aware of these practices and have not taken any action to stop them. the european city guide, construct data, temdi, eu business services, world business directory, expo guide and dad, are still operating unabated. the commission has already stated that such misleading practices are against eu law, but it has not done enough to stop them. this is why we are here today.
in writing. − proper implementation and enforcement of the mca directive is essential to protect small and vulnerable organisations and business against unfair, misleading or aggressive marketing practices. even though the directive covers business-to-business misleading advertising, its wider scope is to protect consumers’ interests, to safeguard smooth functioning of the single market and to significantly improve citizens’ lives. i have seen some improvement, but i still believe that much has to be done in order to stop unfair misleading practices. businesses in europe are still victims of abusive misleading behaviour leading to significant financial losses mostly for small business and start-up business. due to the inaccurate transposition of the directive, i fear that there is still little coherence from one member state to another in the way in which these unfair practices are regulated. if the situation does not improve, further actions are required. there is a need for closer collaboration and coordination between the commission and member states in order to better implement and enforce the directive. there is also a need for better dissemination of information and training, in particular to small businesses and public servants. flexible rules for sanctions, complaints and compensation mechanisms are necessary in order to adapt to the changing market conditions and new market practices.
as for immigration, we expect three things tomorrow. firstly, that the schengen area be defended, because the schengen area means the freedom of citizens, one of the most visible things for citizens from the european union. secondly, common responsibility also at the external borders and not just at the internal borders. and this will need a stronger frontex agency; will need more solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility; and will also need greater cooperation with the countries of the southern mediterranean that are just undergoing revolution there. above all, there still needs to be real political will on immigration. if there is no political will, then we will keep talking but we will not take action.
in writing. – it is imperative that the cap is adequately equipped to rise to the challenges it will have to face in the future. the cap cannot be monolithic; it should be implemented with flexibility and within the current economic and political context. a regulatory policy-based framework should be developed with long-term goals in mind. this would afford small farmers greater stability and would enable them to draw up investment plans over a broader time horizon without concern for the disruption that could be caused by short-term quick-fix policies and give them the support they need to safeguard their business. the agriculture sector’s susceptibility to market instability and price volatility must be addressed and the cap should guarantee a safety-mechanism and provision for effective risk prevention, which would give farmers a measure of income security in these economically trying times and serve to provide foresight of how global price volatility will affect developing countries. the global climatic challenges, the strain posed by demographic changes on food security, as well as the economic recession, should lead to the intensification of efforts to ensure sustainable growth, encourage and protect jobs. dedicated innovation and research will support europe’s transition to becoming more environmentally and economically sustainable.
the six reports on economic governance for the european union, but especially for the euro area, amount to a complex package. a package that was difficult to explain to those who drew it and even more difficult to understand to people out there. understandably, these people are distracted by the crisis unfolding before their eyes, and by the vague and timid response to it. it is therefore our responsibility to explain to our constituents how we are voting, whether for or against each of these reports. in summary, the package put before us by the commission was intended to cover the three stages of how to deal with the crisis. the main objective is prevention; the mitigation; and its resolution. the wortmann-kool, feio and goulard reports dealt at length with the use of sanctions as the major tool to keep countries from reaching dangerous levels of deficits and debts, and what happens to them if they decide to ignore the various warnings made to them about their bad fiscal situation. in their original form, the reports implied among themselves the severity of the fines to be imposed, although later suggestions for further moderation were accepted. the difficult and more creative way of responding to the crisis by avoiding macroeconomic imbalances through the use of scoreboards of targets to be achieved was left to another report, the ferreira report. despite technical constraints and other pressures, this report at least achieved a minimum set of desirable objectives. anyone who tries to look into the package of remedies for resolving the crisis in which they find themselves is looking in vain. some well-thought-out and sensible ideas from economists, both in europe and abroad, on how affected countries can emerge from the crisis are absent from this package. one report which made an effort to build a consensus on 'securities' for the euro was rejected at the last minute by the council and ended up simply with a promise by the commission to undertake studies on this subject. nothing concrete, just a promise of a promise. let us bear in mind that the whole objective of this exercise is to see europe rise from this difficult situation and start racing forward to become globally competitive. for this reason, we should not, in principle, be against euro area countries reducing some of their excess tax burden. we agree that no one should compete when carrying such a burden. but it is not acceptable to impose a crash diet that leaves you weak and frail. europe needs to build up some economic muscle, it needs to invest, it needs creative schemes to increase economic growth and create jobs. it is very disappointing that after many months, none of these smart proposals on the table has found its way into this package.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is instrumental in alleviating the strains on workers that result as a consequence of changes in global work trade patterns. in the context of general motors belgium i believe that the conclusions that have been reached by the rapporteur are justified and have hence decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
in writing. − dossiers that analyse the effectiveness with which eu legislation has been transposed within member states are of crucial importance. i echo the conclusions of the rapporteur, especially those that concern the importance of smes to european economies and the need to facilitate access to finance as well as the need for greater encouragement for smes to enhance innovation, thus increasing competitiveness. for these reasons, amongst others, i have decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
in writing. − this report concerns a number of issues related to the urban dimension of cohesion policy that the committee on regional development has identified as being particularly challenging for the future cohesion policy. the austerity measures that are in place across europe have increased the strain on all levels of public spending, and thus a better coordination of resources has become necessary in order to ensure the most effective use and distribution of such resources. there should also be an efficient flow of resources from the eu all the way down to sub-national level. i am in agreement with the rapporteur on such issues and have thus decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
in writing. − i will vote in favour of this report because it highlights the importance of moving beyond the current greenhouse gas emissions target of 20% and increasing this to 30% in order to work towards the ambitious 2 degree celsius objective. this can only be achieved if there is global adherence to and participation in the ets, which can only be fully effective if implemented on a wider scale. the eu ets must however remain flexible when dealing with the economic crisis by taking financial measures which promote cost-effective ghg reduction in europe. it has become increasingly clear that delaying action is unsustainable and will not only increase the costs of reducing emissions but will also result in the eu losing its pioneering role in green research. there must therefore be continued investment in innovation and promotion of eco-efficient development across member states. international cooperation in this major climatic challenge will ensure that european industry is able to remain competitive and is never placed at an economic disadvantage. the eu, whose global emissions are just over 10%, cannot combat climate change alone; this is a global problem which requires global action.
in writing. − in recent years it has become all the more important to limit regulatory and administrative obstacles to cohesion so as to enhance the ability of different regions to address shared problems together. i am in favour of the conclusions that have been reached by the rapporteur and have decided to vote in favour of this dossier.
in writing. − i will vote in favour of the ferreira report, as it is the only one that emphatically highlights the crucial importance of retaining a broad macroeconomic perspective which takes into account varying levels of productivity in member states whilst simultaneously safeguarding fundamental and social rights through the ‘monti clause’. on the other hand, the economic package proposed by all the other reports only maintains further implementation of widespread austerity measures, which have had, and might well continue to have, damaging effects on economic growth. policies which are solely focused on austerity measures and exclusively encourage further cuts without any investment plans hinder job creation. this is why i will vote against all the other reports and abstain on the haglund report. we need to find an alternative way of dealing with the current crisis which involves implementation of responsible austerity measures coupled with a strong investment plan to ensure that those who are most vulnerable in this crisis are supported. indeed, changes such as extensive structural and regulatory reform of the financial sector must take place, but any improvement of the current situation can only occur through the creation of incentives as well as radical and comprehensive modernisation policies and targeted investment.
in writing. − as my group’s shadow rapporteur i would like to congratulate mrs goulard on the adoption of her report and to thank her for the good cooperation between us throughout these difficult negotiations. i chose to abstain on this report and on the proposed amendment on fiscal convergence. i regret that despite the rapporteur’s best efforts the council watered down or removed numerous intelligent proposals from the text, which made it impossible for me to endorse the report. because of my position as s&d group shadow rapporteur on this report i could not join my colleagues from the maltese delegation in voting against the amendment tabled by my group on fiscal convergence. although i agree with some of the proposals made in the amendment, i do not support the establishment of a common rate of corporate taxation. we need to have better coordination of economic policy but taxation policy must remain in the hands of member states.
in writing. − as a result of the global economic crisis and the instability that continues to plague the euro area, the commission proposed a number of legislative initiatives, cumulatively known as the economic governance package. the package aims to address the deficiencies in the system of economic governance currently in place at eu level. it in order to avoid a repetition of the crises currently inflicting the euro area it is vital that countries exercise fiscal discipline. being part of the euro area has been instrumental for most member states in weathering the adverse effects of the crisis; nevertheless forming part of this group also entails responsibilities as the potential default of one member state will see a wave of negative effects across the entire area. for this reason, ensuring prudent fiscal policy-making is key. i am in favour of a strong european economic governance package and have thus decided to vote in favour of the six dossiers as amended.
in writing. – restrictions on short-selling and credit default swaps in exceptional situations have long been overdue, as is the need for more transparency from financial markets. parliament rightly found it appropriate to have a common framework rather than to rely on a number of divergent measures by member states, as experienced during the financial crisis three years ago. these obligations come in the wake of various other reforms to past regulatory regimes. it is easy to jump on the bandwagon at this time and argue that more regulation is better because we do not want to live through another crisis in our lifetime. but at the same time we all want to look forward to a future where industry, both manufacturing and services, provides much-needed jobs, based on strong economic growth. for this we need many bankable projects. let us therefore satisfy ourselves that there is no unintended collateral damage to industry from financial regulation. we do not want eu project funding to be curtailed by a drought of liquidity, nor do we want their responsibility in mitigating risks to become prohibitively expensive so as to make them lose their competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the 112 service is key in ensuring affordable access to basic telecoms services, preventing social exclusion, offering social protection guarantees and ultimately acting as a lifeline to all eu citizens irrespective of where they are in the union. unfortunately, a recent survey has revealed that this system is not being fully utilised and that european citizens are still largely unaware of the existence of the 112 service: the eu average with regards to the eu citizens’ knowledge of the 112 service as the eu-wide emergency number stands at just 26%, with countries like malta falling below the average at 20%. henceforth, member states should focus on ameliorating this system by increasing the number of dedicated lines at call centres, develop a new software system aimed at monitoring the call handling system and step up efforts in improving and doubling the availability of human resources. on the side of the commission, there needs to be development of a more targeted and far-reaching communication strategy which addresses the preoccupations and queries that citizens face with regards to the mechanics of the system; any action plan must necessarily take into account persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups.
in writing. − i am in agreement with this report because it highlights the importance of taking a more holistic long-term approach to the eu retail sector, one which is consistent and better coordinated to address the market exigencies which existed prior to and following the financial crisis. the aftermath of the crisis has shown us that the european retail market still holds areas of growth and untapped potential and can serve as an important catalyst to harness growth, competitiveness and job creation within a renewed single market. therefore, the commission should map out its action plan carefully and base any strategy to improve the single market for retail on the basis of ‘ex ante’ and ‘ex post’ consultations with smes in order to be able to draw out the effects which measures at eu and national level can have on competitiveness and employment levels of businesses, in particular of micro and small businesses within the eu. in the case of consumer protection, i call on the commission to consolidate an easily accessible user-friendly mechanism containing data on the economic, social, ethical and environmental performance of retailers operating within the single market, so as to enable consumers to enjoy a more integrated retail market within which they are able to make better choices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, primarily because i agree with the proposal that there should be transitional assistance for regions that no longer fall under the convergence objective. the report recommends that an intermediate assistance category should be created for regions with a per-capita gdp between 75% and 95% of the eu average, in order to avoid unequal treatment for certain regions. such transitional assistance should also extend to countries like malta, which could utilise the assistance in order to overcome the statistical effect stemming from union enlargement. in any event, i believe that the criteria for objective 1 status should be properly reviewed, and that such revision must take into account size, population, density and resulting problems which could hinder acceptable development for these member states.
in writing. − although there were a number of salient issues addressed in this document, i will abstain from voting in favour of this report as it has not taken full consideration of the repercussions on periphery island states, such as malta, and mountainous regions, particularly in using the term ‘energy island’, which is used here to describe those states that have an inability to diversify sources and suppliers. although this does not specifically apply to malta, and is a statement made in reference to other member states, any distortion of this term can potentially lead to the isolation of malta in these matters. due to its geographical positioning and a general lack of resources, the country has no gas connections to the continent and is, therefore, completely dependant on foreign fossil fuel imports. in light of this fact, it is extremely important that malta remains properly linked in to european energy networks, and it would therefore be impossible for me to vote in favour of a report that could jeopardise the country’s energy security
in writing. − improving the quality of social services is essential if we are to achieve fundamental eu objectives. it is therefore imperative that a strong ssgi framework is provided on a european level. this would serve to support efforts to retain high standards, accessibility and affordability of such services for european citizens. in doing so however, it is important to keep in mind that ssgis are constantly evolving and must therefore respond to new social, economic, political and technological developments. it is important that any changes in this field respect the competencies and responsibilities of member states, as these services must be tailored to the needs of individual nations and their citizens. the relationship between community law and its operation within the internal market, state aid, public procurement and services of general interest should be viewed against the social aims of the european union and must therefore be properly analysed. the commission should also provide a clear legal framework, especially in the current economic environment, and any information on the application of eu rules must ensure that services of general interest continue to be capable of fulfilling their purpose of guaranteeing a better quality of life for european citizens.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of paragraph 73 of the berès report on the financial, economic and social crisis, which supports the commission’s efforts to deal effectively with tax fraud and tax evasion both at european and international level. however, i do not agree with the recommendation concerning the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax, as stipulated in that clause.
in writing. − in line with my group, i voted in favour of the amendment to paragraph 73 of the original text, because i agree that there is a need to tackle harmful tax competition, tax avoidance and fraud and tax havens. however, i do not support the establishment of a ccctb with an indicative range of tax rates. we need to have better coordination of economic policy, but taxation policy must remain in the hands of member states.
next week, the european parliament will send a delegation of seven meps from here, led by me, to the libyan-tunisian border. our aim is to visit the refugee camps on the borders in places like shusha and ras jedir after we all know that three quarters of a million people have fled the civil war in libya. there we will see the conditions in the camps, talk to the refugees and see how effective the european union is in its humanitarian aid. at the same time we will look at the refugee situation in libya and tunisia and how this can also affect the influx of immigration to our countries in europe. the delegation will also have the opportunity to meet the tunisian prime minister as well as other ministers in the tunisian transitional government. this will be the second time that the european parliament will be present in tunisia in the last six months since the fall of the ben ali regime. what has happened and is happening in libya is criminal, and it is no wonder that gaddafi is wanted by the international criminal court. all the libyan people want is the freedom and democracy that we already enjoy. i hope that we will soon see libya take the path to democracy, as tunisia has, and if it does, we will be behind libya by a stone.
mr president, welcome to your chair. there is this idea of reintroducing internal schengen borders because of migratory flows. this is not a good idea. if you want to control migratory flows, you protect the external borders and do not reintroduce internal borders. if you do so, you will be sealing off member states that are dealing with high migratory pressure and leaving them to deal on their own with problems that are in fact common problems. this is not the answer to common challenges, and it will jeopardise one of the best achievements of europe. those member states that think that closing schengen borders will solve problems must also explain to their own people that, once you shut the door, you may well keep others out but you will also keep your own people locked in. it works both ways.
rapporteur. − madam president, this is the most important overhaul of the law which established frontex in 2004, and parliament greatly welcomes it. the establishment of the agency in 2004 coincided with the start of a massive flow of migration towards europe via different routes. first via spain, and in particular the canary islands; then via italy, and the italian island of lampedusa, and malta; later via greece, and so on and so forth. so, in a way, this agency was asked to start running before it could walk. therefore, all in all, our assessment of the first six years of experience of the agency is that it needs to be strengthened and made more effective because, despite all good intentions, it has not lived up to expectations so far. this proposal to change the law was presented by the commission, and already in the commission proposal we had extremely good ideas which were certainly good steps forward. i hope that parliament has improved on this proposal with the help of the hungarian presidency, in particular, and the council of ministers continues to build on these good points. if had to synthesise the contribution of parliament i would divide it into four points; i will say something about each. the first point is that we tried to increase the visibility of the agency. we did this, in particular, by giving the border guards engaged in frontex missions the name they really deserve. they should be called ‘european border guards’, and therefore we have given this new name to people who, fair enough, will be national border guards coming from national services, but will be participating in european missions under frontex. for that reason they should be called european border guards, rather than unintelligible phrases such as ‘frontex joint support teams’ or, worse, ‘rapid border intervention teams’: ‘rabits’! within one year, the commission has promised to look at the feasibility of actually going that one step further along the path towards the establishment of european border guards proper. the second area where we have made a contribution relates to strengthening the effectiveness of the agency; here, we focused on compulsory solidarity. this means that once a member state decides – and commits itself – to pool a number of border guards or make some equipment, such as vessels, planes or helicopters, available to the agency, it will now be legally obliged to honour its promises. that was not previously the case, which explains to a large extent why the agency was not deemed to be effective in its missions, because when it turned to the member states they did not deliver. the agency will also be able to purchase, lease, own or even co-own its own equipment from now on. of course, we do not expect it to have an army of sorts by any means, but we want the agency to have basic equipment which will enable it to engage in missions, especially in emergencies. we will also give the agency the power to process personal data – under strict conditions – if this can help it in the fight against crime. on human rights – which was a key point for this parliament – we have agreed on important improvements to the commission proposal. for instance, any frontex mission where a violation of human rights occurs will now be suspended or terminated. we will also appoint a fundamental rights officer in the agency and a consultative forum on human rights, and we will monitor return operations in terms of human rights. finally, we will also increase the democratic scrutiny of the agency, which will therefore be held increasingly accountable to parliament. madam president, that is already a mouthful, and i will stop my introduction at this point. i very much look forward to this debate and, hopefully, i will come back to some points later.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers in this very fruitful debate. the amendment of the legal framework of frontex has been a priority for us, and the developments in the mediterranean have of course put even greater emphasis on this work. frontex is only one player in the whole mediterranean situation. this requires a whole range of different instruments. there is the mobility partnership that we are currently developing with our neighbours in northern africa, starting with tunisia and egypt and hopefully continuing with the new regime in libya soon. there is also our global approach to migration, and we are of course putting into place the foundations of the common asylum system. i am grateful for the support of the parliament on all these issues and i am sure we will come back to them very soon. but turning to the future of frontex, the commission will further assess the work of the agency and launch a study to determine if it is feasible to create a european system of border guards. the commission will be making a declaration on this for inclusion in the record, and we will of course also be closely monitoring how frontex is working under the new premises and regulation. i am confident that a first-reading agreement between the co-legislators will enable the agency to better fulfil its coordinating role at the external borders of the eu in the coming years. it will strengthen its effectiveness and operability, and it will also strengthen the fundamental rights aspects of the work. i am thankful for the european parliament’s support in this respect. there are many expectations of frontex. it cannot deliver on all these issues, but with the decision that will be taken in the vote here today or tomorrow, we will give it more resources, more guidelines, more commitment and better legitimacy. i am sure it will work much better with all these things. i would like to thank you all for your involvement in this and particularly the rapporteur, mr busuttil.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! with curiosity and great appreciation, i listened to all the voices that were heard in this discussion. i think we are all saying that a secure external border is a prerequisite for the abolition of internal borders. that is why we attach such importance to this discussion on the agency which, together with the member states, guarantees the security of the external border of the european union. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular. simon busuttil has proved that he can, in a very difficult matter, and today's debate proves it once again, find that wise compromise which, on a matter of great importance to europe, can lead to an agreement which is obviously not in the best interests of all but which can win the support of a majority of members. i am also very grateful to the hungarian presidency, which has been a partner on behalf of the council, for this work. the solution you have prepared further obliges the member states to act together. to act together not only with the agency but also amongst ourselves in the name of european solidarity in the area of responsibility for the common external border. not only in the formal sense, but also by putting their human resources, their equipment, as well as their experience and skills to deal with the difficult situation at the external border, to work together. the solution you have prepared guarantees an increase in efficiency. we would not be discussing frontex so persistently today if it were not for the real threat to the integrity of the external border. this efficiency is therefore not just a slogan, but a deep-rooted expectation of the european community. finally, by entrusting frontex with the task, but also with the tools, of analysing risks, you are saying that it is necessary to prepare for the prevention phase, and not only in the event of a real threat to the security of the external border. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this wise compromise, and in particular the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. −i would like to begin by thanking everyone who took part in this debate and for their interventions. i think, madam president, that if there is a lesson to be drawn from the events of this year, especially with regard to the schengen area, it is precisely what minister miller has just said, namely that in order to guarantee the free movement within the european union that citizens hold so dear, we need to realise that we must jointly strengthen the external borders, that is, the freedom to travel within schengen depends on strong external borders. this is where the frontex agency comes in, helping us to work together to keep our external borders strong. so we wanted to change the law, to make frontex a much more effective agency than it has been so far. because, after all, let's not forget that this is like a chain, and the chain, as they say, is strongest at the weakest link, and so if you have a weak link, the whole chain will dissolve. in the changes we have made to frontex we have looked at and kept one point in mind, namely, we must be tough in protecting our external borders, but at the same time we must be generous and solidarity with those who need help, especially people who are going through these experiences of emigration. in closing, i would like to say, madam president, that it has been a great privilege for me to work together with the shadow rapporteurs, with the commission, as well as with the presidency, especially the hungarian presidency on the frontex agency. i hope that our contribution will lead to a more effective agency and i also hope that in the vote later today we will find great support. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, on behalf of the epp group, i wish to speak against this request for a postponement. i wish to remind colleagues that we have already agreed to postpone the vote at the committee stage and this honestly did not get us any closer to a good, reasonable compromise text that we could all agree upon. in fact, it did not get us anywhere. so a postponement at this stage is not likely to help in any way. also, i hope that this request is not motivated by the national electoral interests of those who might wish to vote one way today and another way after their election.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the masip hidalgo report on audit policy which calls for an in-depth debate on the function of auditors and the structure of the audit market, coupled with a detailed impact assessment which will analyse the various options for future auditing regulations. the response to the recent financial crisis has mainly focused on restoring stability to our financial institutions, but the role of auditors in the crisis is less well understood. in the past, the proliferation of large firms offering multiple professional services has led to dangerous conflicts of interest and high concentrations of risk. more fundamentally, the failure of audit firms to draw attention to the excessive risk-taking and instability of many financial institutions played a large role in precipitating the current crisis, causing many people to lose their jobs and stifling access to credit. we must address these problems by ensuring that auditors act in the public interest, and encouraging growth and broadening of expertise amongst smaller auditing firms. this type of transparent, better regulated auditing will play a key role in restoring economic stability and confidence that companies are financially healthy.
member of the commission. − madam president, europe suffers from a solidarity deficit. i believe that, until this is really turned around, this can not only destroy the european social model, but can also destroy the european union itself. i think this has to be taken very seriously. without much greater solidarity, we will not be able to end the financial crisis. it is true that, until this financial crisis is over, member states – especially those on the periphery of the european union – will continue to drift towards social crisis and potentially social catastrophe. homelessness is one aspect of this very negative tendency. i am grateful to the honourable members, because this debate confirmed that the house is committed to addressing homelessness and housing exclusion. so is the commission. the europe 2020 strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion covers homelessness and housing exclusion. this problem is not about an absolute shortage of housing in europe. this is mainly a distributional question. homelessness has increased in member states which experience population decline, so it is not about an absolute shortage of housing. it is wrong to consider poor or homeless people as criminals. member state governments and local governments have to intervene to correct this very severe market failure. homelessness and housing exclusion are primarily member state competences, and some are very jealous of this. eu housing markets differ significantly in terms of tenancy conditions, quality of housing, services for the homeless, and so on. what we need is more policy coordination, as liz lynne pointed out, information exchanges and statistical evidence, and also a better exchange of best practices. nevertheless, the commission has already embarked on working along the lines which have been proposed, such as striving to improve the knowledge base, supporting and promoting innovation, and the housing-led approach. more is planned. i believe that priority must be given to the integrated approaches which mr őry explained. i would like to open doors for this under the new umbrella of social innovation. this problem also connects with human rights, or the lack of respect for human rights. this has to be looked at from various angles and also from the legislative side. it is truly unacceptable if, for example, as a result of the financial crisis, people who took out a mortgage loan lose their apartment or house, and then still owe money to the bank after losing the house. we have to look at what can be done in this area to improve the legislative framework in europe. furthermore, the commission is in dialogue with stakeholders to ensure that the profile and framework of work in this field is suitable. we have to continue working with the member states. some of them, instead of working on a social housing strategy, open the way for evictions. i will have an opportunity in kraków in october, at the convention of the european platform against poverty, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy, to continue this dialogue and to mobilise the member states, as requested by the honourable member, and also other stakeholders in working together in this area. we will also continue working with the ngos. however, i am sure you are also aware that not all ngos share the approach of the consensus conference. in this continued dialogue i therefore very much count on the support of this house in order to address homelessness and improve housing conditions in the european union.
in writing. – the fact that the vast majority in europe have homes/houses does not mean that a problem of homelessness does not exist. all of us know that when we walk around our capitals and major towns we still see people sleeping on the sidewalks, huddled up in cardboard boxes. perhaps my country (malta) is one of the few countries where homelessness does not exist any more. president mandela once said that he wanted every family in africa to have at least one room to live in. compared to africa and other continents the problem of homelessness in the eu is not a major problem. on the other hand for those persons who do not have a home (even if the percentage is low) it is a tragedy. that is why we need a strategy across the eu for the homeless. it is not enough that every country has its own way of dealing with the problem, some more successfully than others. if we believe in real union of european countries we have to have a strategy for homelessness which goes beyond the borders of individual countries.
in writing. – the eurozone, and indeed the eu itself, is facing one of the most significant challenges in its history. yet the economic governance reforms recently put forward by eu finance ministers fail to prioritise growth and job creation, and place little emphasis on the need for fairness and social equity when reshaping our economies for the future. this agreement will lead us further down the path of austerity at a time when the need for strategic investment to create jobs and growth has never been more acute. i will be working with my fellow meps in an effort to rebalance this package in the coming weeks. i also urge the commission to submit proposals to strengthen financial regulation, including the possibility of establishing a european ratings agency, as soon as possible. the greed of banks and hedge funds, coupled with a lack of rigorous regulation, were the primary causes of the current crisis. it is imperative, therefore, to ensure that in future financial institutions serve the broader economy and society as a whole; taxpayer bailouts must be conditional upon banks providing services and credit to citizens and smes as opposed to simply paying down debts built up due to their own speculation.
in writing. – at this stage of the debt crisis in the eurozone we have now reached the point where words will no longer do. in the absence of political leadership financial markets are taking the decisions for us. some painful truths need to be told. the collapse in share prices in french and german banks is because they are exposed to billions of euros in greek debt. a greek default will cause a domino effect starting with a banking crisis, which will then put pressure on other country’s debt financing. we know this and political leaders in germany, the netherlands, finland and other countries know it as well. but they are resistant to taking the action needed to prevent disaster. either they are in denial or they have not been truthful with their electorates about the choices that face the eurozone. in the old days we could have said that the solution for such indebted countries was to devalue their currency and fend for themselves. with a single currency, single monetary policy and interlinked banking system, this logic no longer applies. the single currency and our banking system are on a precipice. if leaders are not honest and brave both will collapse.
in writing. − i believe that the report on energy market integrity and transparency sets out important principles for the protection of consumers from market abuse and speculation in the wholesale energy market. it is important to ensure that consumers pay a fair price for electricity and gas throughout the european economic area. this would increase consumer confidence in the electricity and gas markets in the long term and ensure affordable, accessible and available energy for all citizens. action to ensure the integrity of markets cannot be a matter for individual member states only. strong cross-border market monitoring is essential for the completion of a fully functioning, interconnected and integrated internal energy market. therefore proper monitoring and transparency of the energy market is dependent on close cooperation and enhanced coordination between various european agencies and national authorities.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of this report which emphasises the need to make the eu institutions more transparent by facilitating public access to parliament, council and commission documents. currently, the lisbon treaty affords citizens the right to access documents of eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies (with limited exceptions for particularly sensitive documents). in practice, however, citizens face a cumbersome procedure with rules that are often unclear. the result is that a significant number of citizen document requests are refused, contributing to the sense the workings of the eu lack accountability and transparency. by addressing these shortcomings, we have an opportunity to reinforce eu efforts against corruption, whilst also encouraging citizens to become better informed about how it works, how public money is spent and how their representatives act.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the karim report, which endorses the principles set out in the smart regulation agenda as key to ensuring eu legislation is simpler, less burdensome and more targeted. currently, the incoherent, fragmented and uneven implementation of eu legislation across the board is largely due to lack of political will on the part of member states to truly take ownership and implement eu regulations effectively at national, regional and local level. the enhanced role of the european parliament and national parliaments introduced by the lisbon treaty, together with the general principle of subsidiarity, has rendered highly significant the active participation of member states throughout the entire policy cycle of each piece of eu legislation. having said that, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must push for the creation of better mechanisms than those we have at present for gauging and reviewing how single market rules apply in practice at all levels in the various member states, and the inevitable implications that these have for citizens, consumers and smes. making legislation clearer, more accessible and user-friendly for our citizens and smes is the way forward.
what happened in libya was a dream come true and i would like to congratulate the libyan people for their courage and determination to achieve freedom. at the same time, i would also like to express my solidarity with the families of all those who lost their lives, who were victims, who were martyrs of this revolution. i am proud that this parliament was one of the first to call for a no-fly zone and also for recognition of the transitional national council. and now? now we need to help the libyan people take the next step towards a country built on peace, democracy, justice and freedom. we now want to help the transition to normality so that the libyan people can start living normal lives, with access to basic needs, such as electricity and water, access to medical care, and even access to work, which gives dignity. we can help a lot. we can help libya build democratic institutions, with respect for the rule of law and even separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers. we have a long experience to offer in this respect and also in developing a democratic environment. we must show that we are ready to stand behind the libyan people in every step they take towards democracy.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen of the house, the council is aware of the risks posed by corruption and its negative impact on the economic and social life of the citizens of the european union. this is a phenomenon that systematically undermines citizens' trust in public institutions. the council therefore welcomes all initiatives to combat corruption and expresses its willingness to actively support efforts to eliminate this problem from both the public and private sectors. in this context, the provisions of the stockholm programme should be recalled, which calls for intensified efforts to combat corruption, inter alia, through increased coordination between member states within the framework of the united nations convention against corruption, the council of europe's group of states against corruption (greco) and the organisation for economic cooperation and development. it is also worth mentioning the european union's proposal to join greco, which should in future be approved by the member states of the european union sitting in the committee of ministers of the council of europe. in addition, in the internal security strategy, the justice and home affairs council referred to corruption as one of the challenges for the internal security of the european union, and called for additional action at union level. in this context, i would like to congratulate the commission on the adoption of the anti-corruption package, in particular the decision to establish an eu anti-corruption reporting mechanism. there can be no doubt about the clear political will of the european union to fight corruption. the adoption of the report on the fight against corruption in the european union is based on the assumption that, although there is no universal solution to the problem of corruption, the problem is common to all member states of the european union. the periodic evaluation and the publication of objective, fact-based reports provide a new tool that gives additional impetus to member states to effectively tackle corruption, in particular by implementing and enforcing agreed international anti-corruption standards. the reporting mechanism, which applies equally to all member states, will provide a transparent overview of the functioning and effectiveness of anti-corruption measures in the european union, help to identify the specific causes of corruption, and thus provide a basis for sound preparation of future european union policy actions to improve it. the council sees the new mechanism as a further step towards greater transparency in this area. it should encourage member states to ratify and effectively implement any relevant international instruments in this field. in this regard, it seems appropriate to examine the potential for effective implementation of the existing legal framework of the european union on the fight against corruption, in particular in the light of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon. the council fully supports the rapid progress of the negotiations on an appropriate solution for the participation of the european union in greco. we are now awaiting the commission's proposal for negotiating directives in this area. as regards the role of the european parliament, i would like to stress the council's commitment to ensuring full respect for article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the council is convinced that the development, implementation and enforcement of a comprehensive eu anti-corruption policy will only be possible if all eu institutions work together constructively to strengthen interinstitutional dialogue and coordination, while respecting the powers of each institution as laid down in the treaties. the european parliament has an important role to play in this respect. the european parliament's relations with civil society, business and citizens affected by the scourge of corruption help ensure that the council will work with parliament as a partner in our commitments to fight corruption. in addition, in accordance with article 218 (10) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament will be kept immediately and fully informed of all stages of negotiations with international organisations. it should be borne in mind that corruption often takes on an international dimension. the links between many individuals and institutions in the financial sphere are based on the mutual benefits of influencing key political and economic decisions. however, they undermine democratic institutions and procedures and make it difficult to detect corrupt activities. a common anti-corruption policy is therefore essential to combat the pathology of corruption effectively. i would like to reiterate that the council remains fully prepared to consider any initiative that the commission considers appropriate to further strengthen the eu's anti-corruption policy, if its adoption is necessary and in accordance with the established procedures of the european union legislative process.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this chance to discuss corruption. i will try to answer the whole battery of questions that the different groups have submitted to me. i am proud that we adopted the anti-corruption package just before the summer. it is an important step towards setting out an anti-corruption policy at eu level, but we still have a lot of work to do. let us face it: there are lots of rules, directives, regulations and international conventions, but what is lacking is not regulation: it is a commitment. it is a political will to have zero tolerance of corruption in all the member states. that will does not exist to a sufficient degree. for that reason, in the preparation of the anti-corruption report, the commission will focus a great deal on the implementation and effectiveness of this. we will highlight in an objective manner the achievements, as well as the vulnerabilities, of the member states’ anti-corruption efforts. we will focus on a number of cost-cutting issues of particular relevance at eu level, as well as issues that are specific to each member state, which will be highlighted by country analysis and tailor-made recommendations. the effectiveness of the implementation will be assessed against a number of quantitative and qualitative indicators. we will collect and analyse information from various sources, building on the existing mechanism – greco, oecd, uncac, civil society and different networks. we will be assisted in this work by a group of experts. this group will be set up by the commission soon, following an open call procedure. we hope that we can include people from a variety of backgrounds – law enforcement, prevention of corruption, civil society, research, the private and public sectors, international organisations, etc. there will also be a network of local research correspondents consisting of representatives of civil society and academia. the commission is planning to adopt the decision to set up the framework for the work of this expert group by the autumn, so that experts can be selected and start work as soon as possible. i know that you are expecting us to come up with the report next year, but i must tell you that it is not possible to produce a thorough, high-quality report before 2013. we have analysed the option of bringing forward a legislative proposal under article 83 of the treaty, as you have mentioned. this could be an option in the long run, but for the moment we need to focus on implementation. that is why a legislative solution would be premature. compared to other policy areas in which we have taken legal initiatives, we know relatively little about the extent and the implications of this issue. long and intensive evidence-gathering, careful comparison with existing legal documents, and thorough analysis of the potential impact of a legislative solution would be needed to agree on common definitions and minimum sanctions. also, as you have acknowledged, the main problem with anti-corruption policy is uneven implementation. minimum standards on anti-corruption policies have already been defined through international instruments, but effective results are still missing and this is due to the lack of political will. as part of the package, the commission also adopted a report on the implementation of the framework decision from 2003 on combating corruption in the private sector. that report indicates that the quality of transposition remained uneven, notably as regards criminalisation of all elements of active and passive bribery and reliability of legal persons. moreover, even for those member states who had transposed such provisions, the information on the actual track record is rather scarce. the commission will therefore continue to work with member states on improving enforcement and will monitor further progress. as regards other key international anti-corruption instruments such as the uncac, the two council of europe conventions and the oecd anti-bribery convention, they all have a dedicated monitoring mechanism and we will seek synergies and cooperate with them. regarding all the other international instruments – and you are aware of them – there are differences in implementation. some member states have not ratified and some have. in this context we have called upon the member states to ratify the legal instruments without further delay, and we will keep on monitoring this in the report, calling upon member states to do the necessary ratification. this will be monitored in the anti-corruption report, in the tailor-made individual recommendations to member states. that report should therefore try to generate additional political commitment to ensure compliance with eu and international commitments. we are presently not intending to submit draft conclusions to the council, as these matters have been addressed through the recently adopted anti-corruption package. the report will be equally applicable to all 27 member states. the specific circumstances of each member state will be considered in the country analysis and the shortcomings found will subsequently be reflected in the tailor-made recommendations, but we do not intend to set up flying squads to send to member states. the contact-point network against corruption will be a very valuable resource for us, but more needs to be done in terms of specific deliverables and the focus of the eu contact-point network against corruption. we are intending to work closely with that network. we do not include in this any specific provisions on transparency, but of course transparency and accountability are, and will remain, key guiding principles when we adopt legislation. finally, i would like to stress once more – just as i did in the contacts we had before this report was prepared – that i really appreciate parliament’s support, as well as the pressure that it is bringing to bear on the commission and the member states. only by continuing this pressure will we achieve results. your commitment and your recommendations, as published today and in the future, will be considered by the commission. i will do my utmost to include them in further work. i make a commitment to you that i will keep you informed of all these steps.
on behalf of the ppe group. other corruption is a serious issue for many europeans. it is said to cost europe some 120 billion a year. almost as much as the european union budget for a whole year. there is therefore no doubt that we must strengthen our fight against corruption not just with words but with deeds. as commissioner malmström has said, we must show 'zero tolerance' against corruption. we as a parliament have a role to play and the european union can take action. after all, corruption goes against basic european values and even knows no limits or borders. it can move across europe and multiply rapidly. europe does not yet have the tools to combat this phenomenon properly. that is why we are having this debate today to spur, to urge action to reduce this phenomenon as much as possible through european tools. in the resolution we have tabled and will be voting on tomorrow, we welcome the package of initiatives presented by the commission earlier this year and i would like to congratulate commissioner malmström for this. at the same time we are telling the commission to see that the member states implement the already existing anti-corruption laws they have, both the commitments they have at international level and the laws they already have at national level. and above all, we are calling on the european union and the member states to promote greater transparency, introduce measures against conflicts of interest and take steps to keep an eye on sectors where corruption is especially problematic. this debate is just the beginning. we will continue in the civil liberties committee, we will continue in the parliament's plenary to ensure that the fight against corruption becomes a european priority.
member of the commission. − mr president, it feels a bit strange to move from the famine in africa to talking about obesity in the western world, but i am going to do so anyway. non-communicable diseases are the main cause of death and poor quality of life in the european union and in many other countries. these diseases have grown into a global challenge: this needs a global response and we need to act now because the burden of non-communicable diseases on society will grow bigger as the population grows older. the commission is confident that the meeting on non-communicable diseases which will take place in new york next week, and where commissioner dalli will be present, will send a clear signal of the willingness of governments around the world to step up action to address these diseases. there is full agreement for a united nations declaration that emphasises prevention as the cornerstone of the global response to non-communicable diseases. this fully reflects and supports the strong focus on prevention of our action here in europe. for one-and-a-half years now, the commission has been pushing for more determination and commitment to addressing the root causes of these diseases – in particular smoking, obesity, alcohol abuse, as well as socio-economic factors. on tobacco, for instance, the european union is a signatory to the international framework convention on tobacco control. the eu has one of the toughest legislations in the world on tobacco products and marketing, and some good national examples of smoke-free legislation. on nutrition and physical activity, the commission is taking forward work to improve our diets in partnership with member states and civil society. the united nations meeting is an important opportunity for the eu to contribute with its experience, to learn and to refresh its commitment together with international partners. we are now working closely with member states to ensure a coordinated input into the preparations for the meeting and the political declaration which is expected to be agreed upon. this declaration will provide a step in the right direction towards strengthening worldwide action to prevent and control non-communicable diseases. the outcome of the meeting will also feed into our own reflection process on chronic diseases here in europe, and the commission will be fostering this between now and the end of 2012. the commission acknowledges and welcomes the longstanding contribution of parliament on non-communicable diseases and we look forward to strengthening this cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, for those who are not quite sure what the issue of ncds – non communicable diseases – means, the answer is simple: it is about diabetes, it is about cancer, it is about cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. it is about diseases that are responsible for 86% of deaths in europe and 63% globally. i suppose we all now get the picture. these numbers are shocking, and they should make us stop to think and then act, more so because the majority of chronic ncds can be prevented, as the commissioner has already pointed out. that means that if we put our heads together, many lives can be saved. unlike europe’s financial crisis, this subject may not be in the news, but it certainly affects citizens in their daily lives. next week’s united nations summit on ncds is a great opportunity for the global community to come up with possible solutions for fighting ncds. if we push hard enough we can push this issue up the global political agenda. today, this parliament will vote on a motion for a resolution that will show our strong commitment to this cause. i would like to thank colleagues from across the political spectrum for coming together on this issue. the resolution will send a strong message to the global community, but it will also send a strong message to the commission itself that we are fully supporting it in its participation in the un summit next week with an ambitious and coordinated eu position. i am delighted that, as commissioner malmström said, commissioner dalli will be present. i hope that president barroso will also attend the summit. if next week we commit the world’s governments to ambitious targets on fighting ncds, we will have taken a great step forward in reversing the trend on ncd-related deaths, and we will have rendered a great service to our citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for the reason that i recognise the importance of europe’s role in libya’s transition to a democratic system of governance. libya’s inherent socio-structural weaknesses which have been further exacerbated by war command the genuine and real support of the union, with europe focusing on the needs of libya as opposed to its own needs. therefore, it is our duty to be of assistance to libya in the remodelling of its societal infrastructure: free elections, a reviewed judicial system and the full involvement of civil society. the defined goal of home-grown democracy in the region is fundamental to stability within europe, consequently adequate funds reserved for democracy-building should form part of the next multiannual financial framework (mff). the democratisation process which will eventually be consolidated by economic development in the region could substantially mitigate the huge rise in migration seen since the uprising. collective ownership and political responsibility by all member states, built on the premise of burden-sharing must necessarily be employed, something which has yet to be achieved.
in writing. − above all, democratic libya needs political and economic stability and for this to be achieved it will require a process of reconciliation. the animosity between different tribes will certainly remain – but a line must be drawn. those who have committed atrocities, and fired upon civilians must be brought to justice. however, not everyone who worked for the gaddafi government is guilty for what it did. in several other african countries following civil wars, authorities decided on those who deserved to face criminal charges and others were pardoned. another major issue is to collect and dispose of weapons. armaments have been distributed not only by the gaddafi regime to its supporters but also by western countries to the opposition forces. until these arms are collected and decommissioned, this will remain a potential source of trouble for libya and its neighbouring countries. if gaddafi is found then he should be tried at the international court of justice at the hague. libya does not have the legal infrastructure to ensure a fair trial and we do not want to see a repeat of the saddam hussein trial.
in writing. − the aim of draft amending budget no 4/2011 to the general budget 2011 is twofold: 1. add a reinforcement of budget 2011 in commitment to manage refugees and migration flows further to recent developments in northern africa and 2. revise the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corrections of uk rebate for the years 2006, 2007 and 2010. the reinforcement of commitment appropriations for the management of refugees and migration flows is crucial as it is a form of response from the eu to the political developments in southern mediterranean countries.
in writing. − the european union has set up the appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. this proposal requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to improve procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf. i support the rapporteur in this initiative, in hopes for greater efficiency, transparency, and visibility of the fund.
in writing. − this proposal requests making the necessary efforts to improve procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf. it should be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment and it should be stressed that the egf-financed measures should lead to long-term employment. i, along with the rapporteur, urge the president to sign the decision and to forward this resolution to the council and the commission.
i had the privilege of leading this delegation to the shousha camps. first of all we must remember that of the almost three quarters of a million people who fled libya towards the tunisian border, all that remained were some 60-70 thousand libyans being hosted by tunisian families, and there were 4-5 thousand refugees, repeat refugees, and non-economic immigrants, who are in the camps of shousha. we went to the shousha camps for a day, we could experience and touch with our own hands the very difficult conditions in which these refugees are: desert conditions walking on sand heat reaching 50 degrees, windstorms that can't get you out of the camp and open your eyes. our consolation was that we were only there for a day but the 4000 refugees were going to stay there and, since july, they are still there so we have to see how we are going to handle this situation. i would like to congratulate the work of unhcr and the international associations that are present for their work. i should also like to congratulate the european union itself on its generous financial support. but i would say to the commissioner that although the european union is giving a lot of financial aid, there is no visibility. everywhere you look at the flags of unhcr, you don't see one symbol, one logo of the european union even though we're paying big millions. now, where will the refugees go? you cannot send them back to their country; cannot be left in the shousha camps; can go back to libya, my hope is that libya now that the situation has changed, maybe, becomes an attraction for immigrants and doesn't expel people or people flee libya but the situation is still fluid and until the situation in libya changes, we need to intervene. yes, europe and other developed country. and the other countries that are helping, like the united states, should put us in a situation of embarrassment because we, alongside them, are not doing enough. solidarity with tunisia, with the refugees is important, and it is also important because, even if we do not say it, they will come to europe anyway. they take a boat and risk their lives. but this is not a dignified way to do it.
in writing. − everyone talks about peace, the main players and the global powers. it appears, however, that no one wants to compromise to achieve peace. it is this compromise which is elusive. in both israel and palestine there are factions which desire peace and want to generally find a solution by compromising on the major points. there are other factions which do not allow the negotiators to find a compromise. jerusalem, return of refugees, building of new settlements, frontiers and borders are all hurdles which can only be overcome through compromise. there is nothing too hard which cannot be addressed. we have got nowhere with previous suggestions; a completely new approach may be a way forward. this can take various forms but it needs creative thinking and sensitivity to come up with completely new ideas. at the end of the day only one element is essential: that is the will to find a solution.
in writing. − i support the joint motion for a resolution on palestine, which reiterates our strong support for the creation of a palestinian state alongside a secure israel as part of a peaceful two-state solution. years have passed without any real progress towards a palestinian state, leaving president abbas with little option but to seek international recognition at the un. although it may be vetoed, i believe it deserves our support because it may succeed in highlighting that the process has been disrupted and needs to be restarted. however, without constructive negotiations, the horrific human rights situation in the west bank and particularly the gaza strip will persist. the eu-backed state-building efforts of palestinian president abbas and prime minister fayyad have been largely successful, thus laying the keystone of a palestinian state. i would urge israel to support these initiatives and to halt the settlement building in the west bank and east jerusalem. a peaceful two-state solution is in the long-term interest of both israelis and palestinians. finally, i call on high representative ashton and the member states to reach a common, unified position to help facilitate negotiations and move towards resolving this most protracted of conflicts.
the president of the council in office. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am very grateful to parliament and the political groups for raising this important issue and for addressing questions to the council during today's plenary session. i am glad that the issue of bulgaria and romania joining the schengen area is of such particular importance to the members of this house. i am sure you are aware that the council discussed this issue at its meeting on 22 and 23 september on the basis of a compromise proposal from the presidency. it was prepared in response to concerns previously expressed by some member states about the initial proposal for a framework decision for the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis to bulgaria and romania. unfortunately, it has become clear that it will not be possible to secure the unanimous support within the council necessary to reach an agreement. the presidency has therefore decided not to put the council's proposal-decision to the vote. as honourable members will recall, the 2005 act of accession provides for verification by means of an evaluation procedure to ensure that bulgaria and romania fulfil the conditions necessary for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis. this is a necessary condition for the council to be able to decide, after consulting the european parliament, on the full application of the acquis and the consequent abolition of checks at internal borders and at the borders between those two member states. these evaluations were carried out between 2009 and 2011. following the completion of the evaluation process, the justice and home affairs council adopted conclusions on 9 june this year confirming that the necessary preconditions for the council to decide to abolish air, land and sea controls at internal borders have been met. the council also agreed to return to this issue as soon as possible, no later than september this year. the polish presidency has submitted a compromise proposal to the council. this proposal provided for the gradual abolition of internal border controls, initially at air and sea borders and then at land borders. it was also the result of a process of intensive discussions with the member states, including, of course, bulgaria and romania. as i mentioned, it did not get the necessary unanimous support. we continue to consider the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area as a priority and are committed to working towards a swift decision on this. the polish presidency is determined to ensure a swift agreement on this issue and to this end we will continue to work towards a balanced approach that satisfactorily addresses the specific concerns expressed by some states, while providing for the abolition of land border controls within a reasonable timeframe. the presidency will keep parliament informed of developments in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for putting this issue on the agenda. thank you for your support on this. as you are aware the decision on romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area is the responsibility of the council, so it is the council who can and who has answered many of your questions. from the commission’s side, we have repeatedly said that the two countries fulfil the technical criteria, they belong in the schengen area, we support them entering the schengen area and we also support the numerous and very hard efforts made by the polish presidency. i hope that we can find a solution to this in the very near future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this debate and this resolution are our response to the unjustified delay by the council of bulgaria’s and romania’s accession to the schengen zone. this chamber has already made its position clear and we reiterate it today: namely that bulgaria and romania should be allowed to join schengen once they fulfil the entry conditions. we say this out of a basic sense of fairness and respect for the rule of law, so we are very surprised and deeply disappointed that, despite bulgaria’s and romania’s having fulfilled the conditions for membership – the same conditions that were applied to all the rest of us – the council failed to ratify the decision to give them the green light. we are told that this happened because of the opposition of two member states – the netherlands and finland – which wield a veto on the decision. that is disappointing because both these countries have a strong european tradition of respect for fairness and the rule of law. as it happens, both their governments rely on the support of populist parties. i would not like to think that the reason for the blockage is that these governments are held hostage to populism, because that would be very worrying indeed. we need to stand up to populism by explaining to the public that fairness dictates respect for the rules, and that when the rules are respected we should draw the appropriate conclusions: in this case by allowing both bulgaria and romania to join the border-free area of schengen. we should not be afraid to explain this to the public. we should not be afraid of taking fair decisions, and we should not be afraid to show political responsibility. not to do so would be to move the goalposts after the game has started, and that is simply not fair.
member of the commission. − mr president, there has been much talk about corruption today, and corruption is a disease that we all suffer from. let us be honest: is there a single country in the european union that has no corruption? we intend to fight this. the commission has presented a proposal for fighting corruption more effectively and addressing the issue in a biannual report in which we single out the problems and help each member state to move forward – and i would like to thank this particular plenary for its support in that regard. however, the criteria for bulgaria and romania joining schengen were outlined in the accession agreement of 2005. they fulfil the criteria, and no additional criteria can be added. romania and bulgaria have done a lot to meet these criteria and that is why the commission has said that they do fulfil them. that is why the council in june said, yes, they fulfil the criteria, and that is why you, the plenary, with a huge majority, said, yes, they fulfil the criteria. now it is time to make a decision.
the president of the council in office. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to stress once again that the polish presidency continues to regard the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area as its priority. we sincerely regret that it was not possible to reach the necessary agreement at the september justice and home affairs council on the basis of our proposed approach. and we still believe that our proposal has proposed a truly balanced approach that can and should be the basis for addressing this issue. i therefore wanted to assure you that the presidency will continue to work towards a solution that will get the necessary - which in this case means unanimous - support and guarantee that the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area will take place within a reasonable timeframe and at the earliest opportunity.
in writing. – i believe that this issue is part of a far wider debate. the european union needs to have a direction and not directions. it is imperative for europe to be, and to be seen as a real union. at present europe is not seen as a coherent entity. because, in reality, it is not. within the union a tug-of-war is being waged between those states which want more union and those states which want less union. we are trying to find compromises allowing member states to choose and pick which initiatives they wish to participate in. schengen is perhaps one of the best examples. but there are others like the eurozone. selecting parts of a menu is resulting in a europe à la carte. i have advocated that in order for europe to be taken seriously and be seen as a meaningful power, it has to have a common project, a common aim, a common direction. this can only occur if further integration takes place. that is why – in spite of a number of difficulties – i am in favour of bulgaria and romania becoming part of schengen. the more countries that participate in common initiatives, the more integrated we become.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to congratulate mr skinner and his substitute mr sánchez presedo as well as the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the report on insurance guarantee schemes. this report marks an important step towards a european approach to overcome the fragmented landscape within a minimum harmonisation framework. as to the time line, the commission plans to approve a proposal for a directive by the end of 2012. i trust that we all agree on a number of points made in the report, such as the home state principle and the importance of providing consumers with easy and appropriate information, for instance through a single point of contact. however, there are a few important issues on which the white paper tabled last year presented arguments for a preliminary position of the commission that i must recall is not exactly that of the report presented today. on coverage, our position in the white paper was that the insurance guarantee scheme should cover both life and non-life insurance policies. on the level of funding, the white paper stated that it needs to be set at an appropriate target level with a suitable transition period in an eu directive. should funding be ex-ante or ex-post? in the white paper our position was that insurance guarantee schemes established at national level should be all financed, at least to a certain extent, by ex-ante contributions from insurance undertakings. the commission however did not exclude that, in the case of a lack of resources, ex-ante funds could possibly be complemented by ex-post funding arrangements. honourable members, this report from mr skinner comes at an important time when we are preparing for a european regime for insurance guarantee schemes. we believe that it will not be too difficult in the future to find a very good common ground acceptable for both the european parliament and the commission. we are encouraged by the commitment shown by you in parliament, and your report reinforces this basis for our joint work ahead.
in writing. – the recent economic downturn and the absence of proper compensation mechanisms for consumers' losses have, beyond doubt, adverse implications for consumer and citizens’ confidence in the financial sector. consumers are one of the most vulnerable groups in the financial crisis and need to be reassured that their money and savings are secured. in order to effectively improve citizens’ confidence, protect consumers’ and taxpayers’ rights and enhance market stability, european institutions, must take urgent actions and build a common cross-boarder framework for igs, without undermining the protection already offered by some member states. the igs should fully take into account consumer interests by providing high degrees of effective, equal and adequate levels of consumer protection. the commission should ensure that existing legislation really benefits consumers, especially with regards to the provision of information and facilitating cross-border contact and payments. the information available to consumers in the event of an insurer’s insolvency should be easily accessible, comprehensive and easy to follow, with clear indications as to which authority the consumer should approach when making claims or enquiries. last but not least an appropriate target level of funding should be set, with a suitable transition period in order to guarantee that the schemes compensate consumers effectively over a wide range of circumstances.
the rapporteur . − this report provides an important contribution to the consultation process that started in december 2010 when the commission launched the green paper on the future of vat. the current vat system is not suited at all to the internal market and the system we have has several administrative and compliance costs which are high and the system is a heavy burden on business. it is a system that is, moreover, open and highly vulnerable to fraud. and this applies increasingly to crossborder transactions where the most serious form of fraud is carousel fraud, which is the most active and costs member states billions of euros each year. choosing the right way forward is a major challenge and this choice should be made after careful consultation with all those who are connected in one way or another to this field. i have met with many organisations including representatives of large farms and small businesses and will now explain the conclusions reached. one of the most important points raised in this report is that we should recognise the status quo and move towards the destination principle when it comes to taxing intra-community and cross-border trade. this position is strongly shared by those involved along with the assertions made in the commission's green paper, that while the system based on the principle of origin is the most adequate for the internal market, any efforts to move forward in this direction have failed. there is no political will, so i think it is time to find a plausible alternative. a system based on the destination principle can only be effective if one-stop shops for vat are set up. the report supports the existing plan to set up these one-stop shops by 1 january 2015. this should lead to a drastic reduction of the administrative burden on businesses and increase the efficiency of cross-border operations. it is worrying that many of those i have spoken to prefer to do business with countries outside the european union in some cases, and we should have an internal market. this is an unacceptable situation and should be addressed as soon as possible. when it comes to choosing the way to collect vat, it is clear that more studies are needed, and other studies are better because i think i have concluded that the best system of all the studies that have been done is the data warehouse model. in order to switch to this system there must be substantial investment in infrastructure and therefore we must be prudent. i therefore recommend that there should be, as i have already said, further studies in this regard to see if this path is viable. we also need to work towards a general reduction in administrative costs. this is a great help to the small business sector. other recommendations i am making are to reduce the frequency of the return period, to simplify the system where exemptions have to be proven and to also increase the use of e-government solutions, especially in vat returns submissions. i think i will stop here for a moment, and then continue after listening to my colleagues.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for your comments and the views you expressed during this very interesting debate. i am glad to see that the european parliament and the stakeholders often share views on priorities and on the action to be undertaken to achieve a simpler, more fraud-proof and efficient vat system tailored to the single market. i also see general strong support for our initiative and, indeed, this is more than necessary. our role in the eu vat system will constitute a huge task. after all, we should never forget that most of the european vat legislation is based on article 113 of the treaty, requiring adoption by unanimity in the council. if the council were to deliver on the high expectations that have been raised, it would have to leave the comfort zone of business as usual, and some member states might find themselves chasing their own shadows. the commission will, of course, take into account parliament’s conclusions, suggestions and requests during the next steps of the review of the eu vat system. as i said, we are finalising our work on the communication on the future of vat, which will be issued very soon – before the end of the year – but, in parallel, we are already working on concrete proposals for improving the system and on issues that were raised today during the discussion. issues such as fraud, better coordination of activities between member states, and exemptions are currently the subject of detailed analyses, and when implementing the strategy we will come forward with concrete proposals on these matters. in conclusion, i would like to thank this parliament – as well as mr casa personally – for its strong support and constructive approach.
the rapporteur . −i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for the way they spoke today and for the support they have given me, which looks set to continue at least when the vote comes later. i appreciated the comments on details contained in the report, including for example the agreement to see an overall reduction in administrative costs and this is particularly true for smes which are the last companies running the european economy and are currently suffering the most from the complex system we have at present. there are a number of proposals for changes that can be implemented immediately without a major change to the current system. i hope at least that the commission will take this into account as we are suggesting, for example, the report is asking the commission to prepare a template for invoices that is linguistically neutral. this could solve the problem we have and could be a grid system based on corresponding numbers that add up, that harmonize, in fact, the input of data. this may also eliminate the translation problem. this report also calls on the commission to prepare a maximum set of vat liabilities. this would mean that countries that already have an efficient system, would not have to add obligations on businesses. on the other hand businesses have a guarantee that there already exists a list of obligations that may be imposed by member states. business grows when the environment is calm and stable, and with this in mind we have suggested that where possible, especially on topics where there is no controversy, rules should be used rather than directives. this increases the uniformity of the interpretation and implementation of vat legislation. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking all those involved, the rapporteurs of the other committees, the staff of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and i am confident that this report will have the necessary and strong support in the vote later today and that we as parliament are sending a strong message to the commission that we hope it will be heard on the future of vat.
rapporteur. − mr president, paragraph 13 is completely covered by part of paragraph 9, and to remove the repetition i would like to propose an oral amendment to delete paragraph 13. i am informed that other groups are in favour of this amendment.
in writing. − i agree with parliament’s position on the eu guarantee to the eib, which enables the eib to retain its eu guarantee for its financing of investments outside the eu as part of its engagement with our neighbours and international partners. this agreement marks the first time parliament and the council have used co-decision as the legal basis for this guarantee, which is a positive step towards reinforcing its democratic oversight and accountability. crucially, parliament has also secured an increase of eur 1 billion for investments in the southern mediterranean (such as improving infrastructure and offering credit to private enterprise). in addition, eib loans and guarantees for projects outside the eu will now be contingent upon their contribution to key eu goals, such as the achievement of the millennium development goals, reduction of poverty levels and the fight against climate change.
in writing. − i support the bowles report which follows the increase in the ebrd’s authorised capital stock by eur 10 billion. this will allow the ebrd to broaden its activities, providing additional access to capital in its countries of operation during a difficult economic period. this additional capital generation will have no immediate direct effect on the eu budget. furthermore, i support the report’s commitment to increasing the transparency of the ebrd, and ensuring that its work is consistent with the europe 2020 strategy. the requirement that the ebrd report annually to parliament will also strengthen accountability and ensure the ebrd’s work is in line with the eu’s objectives.
at a time when the european and global economy is facing an uncertain and difficult future, this report is particularly timely. at the heart of both summits, the european union's summit on the future of the area and the g20 summit, the proposals in the hökmark report are smart and balanced and deserve attention from global leaders at these summits. what should we expect from these changes? we need consistency and cooperation between countries to recover the economy, have better financial rules and trade agreements. the g20 and the imf are two key institutions that need to be replaced to make governance structures effective. the imf needs to reform so that the bric economies have a voice worthy of today's reality, and as for the g20, which is currently serving as a useful talkshop, it needs a binding legal basis. the recommendations regarding global financial operators are important and it is time to separate traditional and investment banking. global economies, particularly in the western part, are going through a difficult time, with a lack of self-confidence. it is crucial that these global institutions are fit for the times.
member of the commission. - i thought you wanted to continue with the same question. we will no doubt have the opportunity to answer other members who are very committed, as you are, to this idea of not a passport but a professional card. it is in the context of the major project to implement the directive on vocational qualifications, which many members are interested in, and which i would like to give a very dynamic dimension to, that we are working with a number of professions on this idea of facilitating exchanges, information and the verification of skills through the professional card. so we are moving very actively on this issue.
member of the commission. − madam president, just to add to the honourable member’s comments: there is indeed a great opportunity in the digital single market for boosting our economy. it is the major source of growth, and i could not agree more with what michel barnier said earlier. the internet sector alone is the size of the belgian economy; it is growing at 12% per year; and it created one million jobs between 2005 and 2009. so investing here and finding the right type of standardisation and a common approach really makes sense. we could make quite a difference here for every european citizen, and i appreciate the initiative the polish presidency has taken in talking about the ‘blue button’, which is just a start in terms of increased closeness and efficiency. the e-signature, e-government, the e-id and e-procurement are all part of the same approach, which michel barnier and i are promoting as a priority.
in the light of the commission's study of the top 20 concerns of citizens, i would like the commission to consider that in 2012 there will also be not just citizens' complaints, but solutions for citizens. i would therefore like to know whether the commission is considering introducing a top 20 solution next year to really move from studies to facts. only then can the citizen have credibility in the common market. another thing i would like to ask is whether, in order for citizens to feel that they really belong to the single market, the commission would consider a citizen's charter, which is a charter listing the rights and obligations that citizens have in relation to the single market. i think this is a step towards really removing the bad perception that the citizen has of the common market. finally, the main problem i see in the common market is not legislation, the preparation of legislation or the approval of legislation, but that it is to be adopted by the various member states. is the commission considering making a governance plan next year - a governance plan, with specific deadlines and targets.
member of the commission. - mrs rapti, i am very pleased that you have spoken in french so that i can understand you better. even if you used your own language, there was no problem in understanding your determination. we are moving forward, mrs rapti, on these two subjects: collective action and alternative dispute settlement. i have nothing to add to what my colleague john dalli has said on this point. what is contained in the single market act and what has been the subject of commitments, particularly in time, which i reminded mrs turunen of earlier for these first twelve proposals, is not just my work. it's a team effort. it is the work of the three commissioners here and of a dozen other commissioners who have worked together to develop this proactive legislation, which is a facilitator for growth and jobs. we have therefore committed ourselves to submitting a proposal on alternative dispute settlement. i simply want to say that this legislation will also cover online trade, and we are naturally concerned about the issue of dispute settlement, which is quite numerous and is one of the handicaps to the development of online trade for cross-border sales. that is the point i wanted to make.
i wish to come back to the issue of alternative dispute resolution, to which commissioner dalli just made a passing reference. i believe this to be a very cheap and quick tool with which consumers can assert their rights without having to go through expensive and time-consuming processes in the courts. i would like the commission to tell us a little bit more about its plans for adr, and whether it feels that this will indeed be a tool that will help and empower eu consumers to resolve their disputes, including online and real offline disputes, in an accessible and cost-effective manner.
member of the commission. − consumers and businesses, particularly smes, still lack confidence in the retail and digital single market. one way of addressing the situation is to build an effective redress framework across europe. adr is a low-cost, simple and efficient way of resolving disputes out of court, as you said, mr busuttil. the same can be said for odr in the online context. my aim is to offer all european consumers and businesses a simple and accessible way of solving their problems without going to court, no matter what, where and how they buy in the european union, whether online or in a shop. this will help to increase consumers’ confidence in the single market and to free up resources that can be reinvested in the economy. i do not want to create new structures and costs, but to improve the efficiency of the systems which already exist and to introduce effective and simple tools to solve consumer disputes where they do not yet exist. the proposal for a directive on adr will build on what already exists in member states. it will respect the great variety of adr schemes put in place across the eu. it will leave it to the member states to decide how they achieve the aim of full adr coverage. those member states with adr schemes covering specific sectors can keep them, provided that those schemes respect the quality principles. they could, for example, cover the remaining areas by establishing a residual adr scheme.
madam president, i have a question for the commissioner: did i understand correctly earlier that the commission will come out with this proposal before the end of this year? can you confirm that?
in writing. − i agree with the wallis report because the creation of a more streamlined system of adr across the board has never been more important in order to ensure that citizens are provided with affordable, expedient and accessible out-of-court mechanisms through which they can seek redress and safeguard their rights. it is a fact that adr systems like the solvit network have proven successful in solving problems affecting citizens, nevertheless the adr landscape of europe remains largely fragmented. i am convinced that any future commission action plan in this respect should secure a new citizen-based adr structure built on the principles of transparency and proportionality. it is also possible for us to work with the existing structures we currently have at our disposal, such as the ecc-network and fin-network centres. additionally, the usage of small claims tribunals in various member states remains significantly low and therefore this aspect must be taken into account by the commission when formulating its proposal on adr. it is vital to note that for any final eu-wide adr package to be endorsed by the european citizen, this must factor in the existence of an eu-wide collective redress system, and therefore i urge the commission to firmly put in place this mechanism by 2012.
in writing. − i fully support the approach of the kósa report on mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities. people living with disabilities represents more than 16% of the european union’s total population and are one of the most excluded and vulnerable groups in society, with a poverty rate higher than 70%. the new european disability strategy advocates that people with disabilities should be active participants in european society and should fully enjoy their rights. it is regrettable that, despite all the commission’s and the member states’ efforts, people with disabilities continue to face barriers and have limited access to goods and services in everyday life. with this in mind, the eu and its member states should not underestimate the magnitude of the problem – especially in the current economic situation, which compounds the negative impact on people’s lives, in particular among marginalised groups. the eu and the member states, taking into account the needs of people with disabilities, should purposefully promote anti-discrimination policies and active social inclusion, in order to guarantee that people with disabilities enjoy universal, effective, equal and non-discriminatory access to high-quality public services by facilitating their mobility and their access to employment, healthcare, education, training and other tools for independent living.
in writing. − i believe that the mutual evaluation process has served as a useful assessment tool in gauging the level and quality of implementation of the services directive within each member state, as well as the progress of the sector for services as a whole within the wider single market. this was a key exercise in clarifying certain ambiguous situations still prevalent in the provision of services at both national and cross-border level, such as the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, legal form and capital ownership requirements and insurance obligations imposed on cross-border service providers. ultimately the process has been instrumental in confirming whether or not the implementation measures adopted in each member state are being carried out according to the spirit of the services directive. this exercise is a clear example of member states taking ownership on the one hand and the commission showing leadership on the other in pursuit of a better single european market for services. i urge the commission to take action on the proposals it has put forward in a bid to tackle the shortcomings revealed by the mutual evaluation process and, moreover, to seriously consider applying the process to other policy areas in the future.
in writing. − i agree with the hökmark report on global economic governance, which calls for the reform of our international economic institutions. the financial crisis was caused mainly by the irresponsible speculation of banks and hedge funds – speculation that regulatory institutions were ill-equipped to cope with, in part because of a lack of proper international coordination. therefore i welcome this report’s emphasis on improving such coordination as a means of strengthening financial regulation and ensuring that the financial sector acts in a transparent way and is accountable to national and international authorities. the european union has an opportunity to take the lead in this area, not only by supporting regulators and improving economic coordination within the union, but also by working to reform the relevant international organisations and forums, with the aim of making them more effective and responsive when faced with the challenges of living in a globalised economy.
we've taken note of your complaint and will take appropriate action. but you have already clarified that and it will be recorded in the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote on the report by mrs francesca balzani and mr josé manuel fernandes will take place at 12 noon today. the vote on the reimer böge report will take place at the next part-session. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. – it is with regret that i am going to abstain on this report. proposals made are only relevant if combined with other meaningful cost-cutting decisions. two examples: 1. we are proposing to have a report on the change of class in which meps travel. 2. we are proposing to freeze all allowances of meps. these may impress at a political level but in reality are not that effective unless taken with major cost-cutting measures. during a five-year legislature, over eur 1 billion is wasted due to having two duplicate european parliament locations, brussels and strasbourg. why is the report silent on having just one location? i sense an attitude of political hypocrisy! by voting in favour of cuts which are less effective, we are conveniently bypassing the real and meaningful cost-cutting measures. moreover, many meps in private do not agree with certain proposals but vote otherwise to avoid a political backlash. i may be many things but at least i am not a hypocrite.
in writing. – given the impact of austerity and the difficult economic environment on european citizens, it is appropriate that the european institutions, including the parliament, should carefully re-examine their spending. we need to ensure that we achieve real value for money and that eu spending is managed in a transparent and accountable manner. with regard to the broader eu budget, it is clear that we must manage spending effectively in order to achieve priorities, while also safeguarding adequate funding for essential services.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! i would like to begin by thanking you very warmly for the efforts you have made in preparing the draft directive on combating the sexual exploitation of children. i would like to thank in particular the hungarian presidency, which has managed to reach a valuable compromise as a result of negotiations with the european parliament. i would like to thank the european commission very warmly, and i would like to thank commissioner cecilia malmström in particular. i would also like to thank in particular the rapporteur, roberta angelilli, whose commitment to children is well known and best demonstrated by her role as european parliament's ombudsman for parental abduction abroad. it's important that we could benefit from your experience in these difficult negotiations. i am glad that the union is not lagging behind. it is responding to the threats that are associated with the development of the modern world, threats that concern a particular victim, which is always a defenseless child. in order to achieve the greatest possible comprehensiveness of the directive, it has also been possible to establish rules relating to the special treatment in criminal proceedings of minors who have suffered as a result of sexual offences. on the other hand, we are introducing measures aimed at reducing recidivism by creating mechanisms for dealing with people who are prone to committing crimes of a sexual nature. we would not want to see the crossing of the border reduce the risk of punishment for the perpetrator of such crimes. it is therefore highly appreciated that the draft law provides for a ban on child labour for offenders, which is also valid after crossing the border. i'm very happy that we've been able to resolve the technical issue with the correlation tables. we don't want these technical details to slow down much-needed action on which there was complete consensus. the way forward for the adoption of this instrument at first reading is now open. i hope that the compromise reached will lead to the swift adoption of the draft directive. i would like to thank once again all the members who have contributed to this solution, our predecessors from the hungarian presidency and the commissioner present in the chamber.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will start first with the oral question. as you know, with the lisbon treaty the protection of the rights of the child was introduced as an objective of the european union and this is made legally binding by the charter of fundamental rights that guarantees the protection of the rights of the child. now we must of course step up the efforts and put some action behind these beautiful words – within the limits of eu competences – with concrete actions and concrete results. that is the aim of the eu agenda for the rights of the child that the commission adopted in february this year. the agenda pointed out something that you have raised in your questions; the significant lack of reliable, comparable and official data on the situation of children in the member states. this is a serious problem for the development and implementation of a genuine evidence-based policy. the fundamental rights agency has carried out important work in finding indicators to help develop policies in the area of the rights of the child. thanks to the financial support of parliament, the commission will also be able to carry out a pilot project on developing child rights data collection for developing evidence-based policies. i am really grateful that the members of this house share the interest of data collection, for instance in children’s effective access to justice. with the pilot project i mentioned, we will be able to have reliable and comparable data on children’s effective access to justice from all the member states by 2013. it is clear, of course, that if we want our policies to be effective we need money. there is no specific budget line called ‘policies for children’. but there are various programmes within our budget that provide funding aimed at children. we have, for instance, the daphne programme with a budget of eur 117 million providing financial support to ngos and local authorities to combat violence against children. we have the fundamental rights and citizenship programme providing funding on children’s rights issues to national authorities and ngos; and we have the safer internet programme with a total budget of eur 55 million aimed to empower and protect children online by awareness-raising initiatives. under the new multiannual framework programme 2014-2020, we will continue to fund policies to deliver child-friendly justice, to protect children and safeguard their rights. with a similar amount of funding as in the current generation of programmes, we will ensure a more efficient delivery for these actions and this will be achieved through streamlined programmes and a better response to the needs. the eu agenda emphasised the importance of access to education and care services for small children. in the communication on early childhood education and care adopted earlier this year, the commission set out key policy issues to be addressed at the european level to improve the accessibility and quality of service from birth to compulsory school age. in the council conclusions of may, the member states were invited to analyse the current situation, to reinforce measures to improve access to high quality services and to invest in childhood education and care. the commission will set up a thematic working group of policy-makers, academics and practitioners in early childhood education and care. in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters the commission carefully monitors the correct application of the brussels iia regulation which provides for common rules on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgment in matters of parental responsibility and cross-border parental child abduction. the correct implementation of the hague convention on child abduction is critical here. the aim of the convention, as you know, is to restore the status quo by means of the prompt return of wrongfully removed or retained children through cooperation between central authorities. in external relations the commission actively promotes the signature of this convention to other countries. child abduction and missing children is a growing and a common problem, and unfortunately it will not go away. we need to find tools to deal with this; and tools for member states to be able to cooperate with each other in cases where a child is abducted. we have child alert systems designed especially for cases of extremely worrying disappearances of children, such as child abduction. to date a child alert system works in ten member states and the commission is committed to work with the other member states so they are also rolled out in the remaining seventeen. we have been encouraging member states to set up their own national child alert system and we support them operationally through the exchange of best practices, and financially in order to make sure that they are operational on a cross-border basis. a few years ago, with the financial support of parliament, the commission launched a pilot project aiming to introduce a child alert mechanism across europe. this project consisted either of establishing a child alert system in those member states or/and improving cooperation mechanisms amongst neighbouring countries. this is crucial and there are some good practices. for instance, we have the lutte anti-disparitions d’enfants between france, belgium and britain that respects national sovereignty but has laid down procedures and provides the possibility to share information. some member states have not yet realised the values of these systems and my colleague vice-president reding has called on member states who have not yet introduced child alert mechanisms to take all necessary steps for their implementation without delay. child alert is not the only tool. we also have the 116000 hotline in europe designed to report missing children and offer support to the families of missing children. sixteen member states have signed up to this and we are of course making every effort for the rest of them to join as well. we will continue to support and encourage member states, within the powers of the commission, to ensure protection and promotion of the rights of the child. passing now to the angelilli report; sexual crimes committed by adults towards children is the most horrendous form of criminality. as adults, we cannot and we should not accept this, and the report today is the proof that we will not accept it. it is a delicate compromise with a lot of people involved and i would like to pay tribute to the work of ms angelilli and her collaborators, the shadows, the coordinators and the polish and hungarian presidencies. it is a compromise, and it is true that the commission would have liked to go further in criminalising child sex tourism by including eu habitual residents as well as nationals in the extra-territorial jurisdiction against abusing children abroad. the compromise has considerably strengthened the proposal by criminalising child grooming more extensively and adding important provisions on victim protection, providing the right for employers to ask for information on criminal records and providing for awareness-raising and training of professionals as preventive measures. this directive equips us much better than the current one from 2004. on the prosecution of offenders there are 20 criminal offences, including new trends like grooming online, webcam abuse, web viewing child pornography; different levels of penalties from one year to ten years’ imprisonment; the elimination of hurdles that may be set by statutes of limitation or confidentiality rules and special police units specially equipped to identify child victims – which will be a very important investigative tool. on child tourism, there is extra-territorial jurisdiction for nationals; the removal of procedural hurdles and the prohibition of organising travel or advertising opportunities to abuse children. there is extensive assistance to protect the victims with an individual assessment of each child. there will be risk assessment for convicted offenders and intervention programmes as well as education, awareness training, etc. to detect child sexual abuse. on images of sexual abuse of children on the internet, we have agreement on the removal of web pages hosted in member states, intended action to have them removed abroad and the possibility of blocking, subject to transparent procedures. again, i would like to thank the parliament for your true commitment to this. it has been a difficult journey but i think we have skilfully navigated in this complicated file. with this we show that our collective aim is to protect children and we do not tolerate children being used as objects to satisfy the sexual needs or greed of adults. thank you very much for your hard work in this.
on behalf of the ppe group. other i want to talk about the child exploitation law. i would like to start by congratulating roberta angelilli on her great work. i think we all agree that children are vulnerable people and therefore need special care and protection that goes beyond normal protection. in recent years many cases of child abuse have been exposed at various levels, almost across europe and around the world. while these cases are shocking, they are ultimately raising awareness of the problem and its magnitude. there is a growing awareness of the gap in child protection and the need to act as soon as possible. child abuse has probably been around forever, but it is now coming out in the open. what did not exist was the internet, which, in addition to the undisputed wealth and progress it brought, also brought new possibilities of how children can be abused and exploited. through the internet, where children are not protected, the child abuser is able to do so by contact, by deceptive contact. at the same time the internet also allows the mass distribution of material involving pornography. now, this bill that we're going to vote on is a clear message that this abuse has to stop. this law we are about to adopt will defend children as they truly deserve. i as a member of this parliament will vote in favour of this law. and as a father of two children i am very proud to do so.
in writing. − the union must fully realise the dangers that come with new technological developments, particularly ict and the internet, when talking about sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography has long existed, but a significant increase of cases of sexual exploitation of children, particularly across borders, over the years should point to the gravity of the problem. new, evolutionary developments in communication and information technology facilitate sexual offenders to reach their victims and easily abuse their rights. sexual predators are also constantly provided with different instruments to buy, produce, distribute, transmit, and supply child pornography pictures and videos across europe. child abuse and pornography span the europe union and are not limited to individual member states; therefore, we need a comprehensive pan-european approach that centres around the best interests of the child. i believe that this directive, if implemented accordingly, will be a valuable legal instrument which will establish minimum rules and criminalise the most serious forms of child sexual abuse. it will make a real difference in covering the prosecution of offenders, strengthening the protection of child victims, and preventing an increase of the phenomenon as well as future crimes against children.
in writing. – taking an eu regulated approach which respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and which is in line with single market rules is the best way forward. the disadvantages which emanate from an unregulated gambling market are greater than those encountered in a more regulated and uniform one. therefore any action plan must factor in extra precautions geared towards meeting the challenges and countering the elements of risk posed by the online environment in terms of the safeguard of minors, player protection, payment security and data protection of individuals engaged in internet gambling, as well as ensuring that fair competition for operators duly licensed in other member states is guaranteed in each member state. i am unable to support the endorsement of national restrictions vis-à-vis the online gambling sector, which could have an adverse effect on gaming operators that are duly licensed as aforementioned and wish to operate cross-border. the term ‘illegal’, which remains undefined throughout the text, is unacceptable as it gives rise to legal ambiguity and encourages member states to take protectionist measures in the online gambling sector, further increasing the fragmentation of the market. i therefore propose that a common definition based on the european commission green paper is attributed to the concept of ‘illegal’ at eu level.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report due to its firm endorsement of the updating of the professional qualifications directive. in the revision process, one of the issues which needs to be tackled is the persistent reluctance shown by member states to collaborate among themselves – an unwillingness which has emerged due to a lack of trust that the eu-27 have in each others’ systems and which has consequently resulted in the uneven implementation and enforcement of the directive throughout the union. the revamp will require true ownership on the part of member states, whereby national governments and labour market players will have to engage in a structured dialogue on how better to guarantee professional integration of young people and the cross-border movement of workers with a view to establishing an efficient and transparent professional qualifications recognition system which is applicable throughout europe. i am also of the conviction that the creation of a professional card could significantly increase labour mobility and boost citizen confidence vis-à-vis the service being offered and enable the competent authorities of the receiving state to have a true and clear picture of the level of qualification and experience which the professional in question has.
in writing. − the complexities of the single market should not be underestimated and the fact that addressing the eu’s socio-economic problems entails working towards a market that is at the service of citizens and not the other way around. therefore the new consumer agenda should take into account the essential needs of ordinary citizens, especially the ones in the most vulnerable positions such as the young, uneducated, disabled or those without internet access. in order to reach a more social and sustainable consumer policy, the consumer agenda should address core issues such as consumer empowerment, consumer protection and focus on actions towards enforcement of consumer rights and redress. the commission should merge the various sources of information into a one-stop shop providing free, reliable, comparable, objective, multilingual and easily accessible information for consumers. the commission should reinforce the role of eu citizens and consumers in the relaunch of the single market, by making them a main political variable in the determination and formulation of the future single market legislation.
in writing. − i fully support the approach for more simplification, more clarity and more proportionality in the future revision of the state-aid package on services of general economic interest (sgeis). any future review of eu state-aid rules on sgeis should ensure that we are not dogmatic in our approach in order to reflect and be aligned with the present economic problems and social realities of member states. the introduction of a more practical and pragmatic approach towards state-aid rules in the sector could potentially help to contain the re-emergence of protectionist attitudes at member state level, which act as a direct threat to the completion of the single market. that is why it is important to watch out for protectionist policies. last but not least, i believe that a high standard of social services is essential to achieving the fundamental objectives of the european union, therefore a future framework establishing a level playing field, common principles and conditions for the operation of sgeis, while respecting the subsidiary principle between the member states, would serve as minimum guidelines for high quality standards, accessibility and affordability of services for the benefit of all eu citizens.
in writing. – we all state in public that european economies are so interconnected that we need to coordinate our actions. yet what we have seen in practice are creditor countries in the eurozone, with relatively sound and stable public finances and strong economies, pursuing the same austerity policies as those receiving emergency loans. as a result, last week’s economic forecasts by the commission demonstrated that the euro area has now been brought to the brink of a new recession. this is definitely not the time to be talking about changing the treaties. as we saw from the creation of the european stability mechanism earlier this year, even the use of the new simplified procedure takes months – and that is without changing the eu’s competences. the issue of embedding the current emergency measures in the treaties should wait until we see the resolution of this crisis. rather than behaving exclusively like conventional creditors, europe’s strongest countries should take this opportunity to pursue more demand-driven policies and stop the eu from going over the brink.
in writing. – the euro and the single market are the tangible raisons d’être for the eu. the problems and fragmentation besetting the euro and the single market ultimately mean less europe, and less of the benefits that europe offers citizens. it is past time that the member states decide whether they want to proceed with the integration necessary to create jobs and growth within a social, competitive market economy. european integration is not irreversible. we must act immediately to build a holistic, long-term solution to the clear shortcomings of the euro and the single market. the single market forum, held this november, represented a valuable step towards building the necessary consensus on the direction of the single market. citizens, consumer organisations and smes made quite clear that there are substantial gaps between what they expect from the market and what they experience in practice. at the forum, i called on the commission to shift from phase one (identifying sources of frustration) to phase two (implementing the necessary solutions to the market’s gaps). now we must also examine the possibility of holding annual forums in each member state, whereby the experiences of citizens can feed into a single biannual european single market forum.
mr president, it is not a mere stroke of bad luck that we find ourselves close to the edge of a catastrophe. it is simply a calculated act of brinkmanship on the part of all actors involved in the fate of the euro which has brought us to this point. ‘brinkmanship’ is defined as a calculated practice of pushing a situation to the brink of disaster in order to win an advantage from your opponent. we have witnessed brinkmanship by the creditor countries in the euro zone in order to extract the best terms possible from the debtor countries by minimising moral hazard and thus ensuring that they participate fully in the austerity programme laid out for them, as per conditionality clause, and to do this with the consent of the majority of the population in one form or other; brinkmanship by the indebted countries, knowing full well that it is not in the interest of the euro zone paymaster to let them default; brinkmanship by the european central bank, which refuses to be drawn into the position of lender of last resort with the hope that the euro zone will find its own political solutions; brinkmanship by those in the european parliament who spent endless hours upping the sanctions within the six-pack and making sure that this time round they securely lock the stable doors, ignoring the observation that the horse has already bolted; and brinkmanship by the council, who earlier on in the year made such words as ‘eurobonds’ and ‘voluntary haircuts’ taboo, hoping that the six-pack would provide a silver bullet. however, brinkmanship through a valid process has its dangers. we are in danger of going down in history as a political class who, because of being smart with these actions and strategies, presided over the collapse of the euro and global depression. technically the solutions have been known to all who wanted to see and listen. in whatever shape or form, they include instruments which combine an element of joint liability among all euro zone member states and a watertight solution to the moral hazard issue. so let us act collectively on these core principles, for the rest is detail. but we must act now before it is too late.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was created in order to provide assistance to workers rendered redundant due to structural changes in global trade patterns. the egf will help workers find new jobs or train them to learn relevant skills geared towards the current needs of the labour market. this fund has not been used to its full extent due to the bureaucratic difficulties involved in its mobilisation. currently, the egf can be improved through the following measures: improved procedural and budgetary plans to make mobilisation faster, allowing the egf to provide individual support for workers who have suffered due to globalisation, and the creation of a specific budget line for egf. i support the rapporteur and believe that these changes will be necessary to help workers in finding work and reducing the eu's unemployment rate. in short, the faster the egf can be mobilised, the sooner the eu can help workers in need.
in writing. − this proposal discusses amendments made to a council regulation regarding repayable assistance and financial engineering. member states have had great success with repayable assistance schemes from 2000 to 2006 and have now started implementing these repayable assistance schemes in the programming for 2007-2013. in july of 2006, council regulation no 1083/2006 gave the general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund and repealing regulation 1260/1999. these provisions laid out the rules for financial assistance, but the repayable assistance plans in the form of reimbursement grants and credit lines that member states adopted were not completely covered by the provisions of regulation no 1083/2006. i thus agree with the rapporteur in that it is necessary in accordance with article ii of council regulation no 1081/2006 to make amendments that allow structural funds to co-finance repayable assistance. such amendments need to include the following provisions: the financial resources used during repayable assistance must be reimbursed by beneficiaries, enhanced transparency and more efficient execution of financial engineering resources, and making clear that provisions on major projects are not applicable for repayable assistance.
in writing. − the economic crisis has had a devastating effect on economic growth and financial stability in almost all member states. in order to take measures to counterbalance these negative effects it is necessary to amend the relevant current legislative framework. this amending regulation supports the european commission’s proposal to amend council regulation no 1083/2006 in order to provide additional financial resources to member states that are struggling under unsustainable debts. in may 2011, ireland and portugal were given such assistance and it proved crucial to these two countries, which is why the current regulation must be amended in order to continue the aid supplied by this programme. it is for this reason that i support the rapporteur.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) does not allow for a distinction between the taxation of local products of the canary islands and the taxation of products from spain or other member states. council decision 2002/546/ec of june 2002 authorised spain up until 31 december 2011 to apply exemptions from or reductions to taxes for products produced locally in the canary islands. this was adopted in order to strengthen the local industry and increase competitiveness. with the economic crisis, however, travelling abroad has been reduced substantially and has had harsh consequences on the canary islands, an economy that heavily relies on tourism as a source of revenue. on 16 november 2010, spain introduced a proposal that would allow council decision 2002/546/ec to be extended until december 2013. i support the rapporteur and believe the canary islands have benefited from this tax exemption, and this extension will allow for the area to return to economic growth.
in writing. − this proposal will adopt specific measures to specify the conditions of application of the treaties and common policies to the eu’s outermost regions, such as the french overseas departments (fod). one of these specific measures deals with fiscal policies, particularly the decision to authorise france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty on traditional rum produced overseas and sold in the french mainland. i support the rapporteur and believe the following amendments should be passed: 1. an increase in the annual quota of 108 000 hl of pure alcohol to 125 000 hl and 2. extend the derogation date from 31 december 2012 to 31 december 2013. these proposals reflect the market price for rum in the eu and will certainly be helpful to the economies of the eu’s outermost regions.
in writing. − the european central bank has a duty to keep eurozone inflation in check so as to protect the purchasing power of the euro. these goals will be more easily reached if the european central bank were to mutualise eurozone debt by issuing eurobonds. i agree with the rapporteur in that the ecb needs to create a discount rate mechanism that can be adjusted if securities are further downgraded by credit rating agencies. i also agree with the rapporteur in that there needs to be more power given to the eu institutions so that national fiscal policies can be better coordinated and kept within agreed rules.
in writing. − early school leaving (esl) remains a largely unaddressed phenomenon in the eu despite efforts through the europe 2020 strategy to lower the relatively high average rate. a target to reduce esl to 10% by 2020 was agreed upon by all member states in 2003 and so far only seven countries have reached this goal. though most member states have shown signs of progress there is still much to be done in order to lower the esl rate as a high proportion of young people who drop out of school negatively affects economic growth and the development of skills that are necessary for the future economic and social development of member states. i support the rapporteur and her proposed efforts to curb this unresolved problem.
in writing. − on 15 february 2011 a constituent meeting of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee was held in strasbourg where the ep delegation discussed four files as a package (dci, dci/bam, ici+ and eidhr). it was agreed that these files will remain unchanged until 2013. i support the rapporteur and call for these documents to be accepted as a compromise package between the parliament and the council.
in writing. − on 21 april 2009, the commission adopted its proposal to amend regulation no 1394/2006, which established financing instruments for cooperation with the industrialised and other high-income regions (ici regulation). this amendment expanded the regulation to also cooperate with developing countries in asia, central asia, latin america, the middle east, as well as south africa. however, this ici regulation does not provide a legal basis for financing these activities as they do not fulfil the criteria laid down by the development assistance committee of the organisation for economic cooperation and development. the european parliament made many improvements with its first and second readings of this bill in 2010 and 2011. changes made include improvements to the ep’s programming and financing. also, the council and ep agreed to accept the four files (dci, dci/bam, ici+ and eidhr) as a compromise package. this compromise enables the eu to strengthen its economic relations with developing countries, as well as with major emerging economies – like mexico and china.
in writing. − on 21 april 2009, the commission adopted a proposal amending regulation no 1889/2006 that established a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide. in this package the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), which is an instrument that can grant aid where no established development cooperation exists, was also discussed. the eidhr and the development cooperation instrument (dci) are the only measures that do not have an exception to the principle of non-eligibility for eu funding. this kind of flexibility is essential to the operation of eidhr and dci, which is why the commission has proposed to adopt the words ‘in principle’ in article 13, paragraph 6. the european parliament has further amended this legislation by harmonising the eidhr and dci and by introducing a measure for the adoption of multiannual cooperation programmes and strategy papers. upon the second reading, the parliament and commission agreed that the four files (dci, dci/bam, ici+ and eidhr) would be accepted as a compromise package and would remain unchanged until 2013. i therefore support the rapporteur and this finalised package.
in writing. − on 15 february 2011 a constituent meeting of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee was held in strasbourg where the ep delegation discussed four files as a package (dci, dci/bam, ici+ and eidhr). it was agreed that these files will remain unchanged until 2013. the parliament accepted this package as a compromise with the council as not much more could be implemented that would improve the dci/bam instrument. i agree with the rapporteur in that the parliament must insist on the use of delegated acts whenever political decisions are made on financing and programming with regard to dci, dci/bam, ici+ and eidhr.
in writing. − this proposal was put forward by the commission in order to recast a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistical returns in respect of the carriage of goods by road. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's proposals in the recast regulation are much too general and that we must ensure that the amendments would not place any additional financial burdens on statistical respondents. i therefore voted against the commission’s proposals as i do not think these criteria were met and i would like to engage in further negotiations with the commission on this particular issue.
in writing. − on 20 december 2006 the european parliament adopted regulation 1931/2006 which set rules regarding local border traffic at the external borders of member states. this regulation aimed to prevent barriers to trade, social and cultural interchange or regional cooperation. the kaliningrad region of the russian federation lies within this schengen region as a result of the eu enlargement in 2004 and since then it has lost all of its previous ties with its neighbours. there have been many regulations easing the border and travel restrictions between kaliningrad and the rest of russia; however, such initiatives have not been successful. due to this situation, kaliningrad and poland have both called for amendments to be made to the local border traffic regulations in order to make the entire kaliningrad region a single border area. i support the rapporteur and believe that this amendment will allow for improved regional cooperation. furthermore, this move will also benefit poland’s tourism sector since the amendment will allow for easier access to local border traffic permits.
in writing. − croatia has been an independent nation for twenty years now and an eu accession candidate for eight. the country has successfully met the required criteria to become a fully-fledged member state. the accession process has helped consolidate democracy and has mobilised other sweeping political, social and economic reforms in croatia. the nation’s accession is important both to the eu and to the balkan region in general. i support the rapporteur and believe that croatia should be accepted as a member state on 1 july 2013 as long as it continues the improvements made thus far. until this date, i encourage croatia to continue to step up its prosecution of war criminals, better facilitate the return of refugees, improve women’s equality in regard to equal pay and representation in political institutions and improve lgbt rights due to the violence demonstrated at the lgbt pride march in june 2011.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all a great thank you to the rapporteur ms mathieu, and also to the rapporteur for the opinion mr cercas, and to all the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on employment and social affairs, for their excellent work on this proposal. thank you also, ms mathieu, for the nice words you said about cecilia malmström. i will certainly convey these words to her. as you are aware, the commission presented this proposal back in 2007, which seems like another century because since then we have arrived at the lisbon treaty, but at that time our aim was – and still is – to simplify procedures by introducing one permit for residence and work, while protecting migrant workers by guaranteeing them employment-related rights on an equal footing with nationals. this proposal is one of the main building blocks of the european union’s labour migration policy. it is a complex proposal as it addresses both immigration and employment issues. if adopted by parliament and the council, this directive will confirm the important contribution third-country workers make to our economies and to our societies. the commission has already confirmed that the text agreed upon is in line with the original objectives. if the text is endorsed by parliament, this directive will be the first one on legal migration under the ordinary legislative procedure introduced in this area by the lisbon treaty. indeed, parliament’s involvement as a fully fledged legislator has made it possible because there is a substantial contribution by parliament to achieving a more rights-based instrument, ensuring, for example, social security rights for registered unemployed workers who have earned them through previous contributions. finally i would like to raise an institutional point. the commission is very pleased that the last pending issue, the reporting mechanism on implementation, was also solved in a satisfactory manner. in line with that interinstitutional agreement, the commission decided to propose in this specific case that member states provide explanatory documents when putting these eu rules into national law. given the wide scope and the wide range of rights and policy areas involved – social security, education, labour law – this was a very important issue and we are pleased that the council accepted this proposal. let me hope, ms mathieu, that parliament will endorse the agreement and thereby adopt the directive, which will facilitate matters for potential employers and guarantee legal security for non-eu workers throughout the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, veronique mathieu, for the great work she has done on a subject which is very delicate and sensitive, and its difficulty probably also shows the importance of this dossier. this is the first time, as has just been said, that we are passing a law with a codecision on the possibility of third-country nationals being able to work legally in european union countries. this law gives certain advantages: the advantage to third-country nationals wishing to come to work in the european union, because for the first time it gives them a legal means of doing so, gives an advantage to the countries of the european union by giving them the power to accept workers from third countries on a legal form, while leaving them free to decide for themselves how many work permits they can grant; and is also an advantage because the possibility of legal work also cuts off the possibility - or also attacks the possibility - of illegal immigration. and so this law is itself a means of fighting illegal immigration. it is ironic that when we came to vote on this law in the committee, unfortunately the socialist group abstained, when one would have expected to support such a law, which for the first time is opening up this right to third country nationals - a right which also gives them certain guarantees of rights. i think this abstention shows that people still prefer, i think, the law of the jungle, to having a law that gives a clear set of standards to workers coming to work in our country.
in writing. – the crisis buffeting the eurozone demands decisive action to restore stability and certainty. however, the outcome of the recent council summit will lead us further down the path of austerity without a plan for future jobs and growth. saving the euro will require much more than a crash diet that will fall apart in the long run. what is needed is a long-term vision that will withstand the test of time. otherwise, we would merely be prolonging the patient’s illness instead of issuing the correct prescription. just as with the single market, member states must take the necessary ownership and responsibility to overcome the shortcomings exposed by the sovereign debt crisis. the role of the ecb will also have to evolve to address present economic realities. therefore we must make every effort in 2012 to strengthen the euro and the single market, the two pillars of european integration. altering or reversing course would risk creating a two, or even three-speed europe. my hope is that the new treaty will be negotiated on a fair playing field, with the input of the european parliament and national parliaments, to ensure the treaty has proper democratic accountability.
in writing. − i am in favour of this, because under the new law third-country nationals will be able to obtain both residence and work permits in a member state through a single permit application procedure. single-permit holders will enjoy a common set of rights (similar to those of eu nationals). however, the new law does allow a degree of discretion to member state – eu countries will be able to apply some specific restrictions to these rights and ultimately still retain the power to decide whether or not to admit non-eu workers. the directive aims to strike a balance between plugging the gaps of the eu labour market with the skills and knowledge of non-eu nationals while at the same time ensuring that member states are not strained financially and that the public and social services capacity of any given member state is not overstepped because of an influx of third-country nationals which the member state in question is unable to shoulder. ultimately, the introduction of this law will at least partly ease long-term demographic pressures europe currently faces due to migration. actively facilitating migration where it meets the objectives of the eu labour market is a step in the right direction to achieving a coherent migration policy for europe.
in writing. − the clause in the lisbon treaty for the allocation of the 18 extra seats has taken two years to come into force – an example of the bureaucratic approach which the eu institutions are often criticised for on the one hand and a clear lack of initiative on the part of some member states to push the process for conclusion as quickly as possible on the other. a decision to amend the number of members sitting in the various standing committees will mean that constituents from various member states will start to enjoy a stronger and more broadly based representation in the house – this being particularly true for smaller member states like malta, which has been allocated a further seat in the ep, guaranteeing a louder voice for its citizens within committees. this amelioration of the democratic aspect has come at a particularly difficult but important time for the eu, and the ep must therefore facilitate the realisation of the various economic and social reforms the union must undergo. our members, within the various committees, need to work against this backdrop, be proactive and ensure that the overhaul required with regard to certain aspects of current work practice within committee is effected as soon and as smoothly as possible.
madam president, to put things into perspective, the first thing we should say is that the eu institutions are already amongst the most transparent institutions in the entire european union. the epp group is committed to transparency and we have shown this recently in a vote we took in favour of the hautala-sargentini report on public access to documents. but unfortunately the report we are debating is a case of a good thing taken too far. instead of increasing transparency, it risks undermining the work of the institutions and therefore it does not serve the interests of our citizens. let me explain why. according to this report, the minutes of the negotiating meetings we hold when we make laws with the council and the commission – trialogue meetings – would have to be made public. now, if we do this, none of the negotiating parties involved will want to adopt a flexible approach for fear that what they say will be reported in public and will weaken their negotiating position. how will this benefit citizens, may i ask? it would make weaker laws, not better laws, because those involved would not take a flexible approach out of fear that what they say will be publicly reported in the name of transparency. they would not be allowed the space to think, the space to present different negotiating options and the space to adopt constructive positions. so, despite its good intentions, this report will not lead to further transparency. it will just undermine the institutions’ work in favour of citizens. it turns a good idea into a bad one. that is why the epp group will vote against this and continue to work constructively in favour of more transparency that makes sense.
in writing. − i welcome the cashman report on public access to eu documents, as i believe the proposed measures will help make our eu institutions more transparent and accountable to citizens. citizens have a right to know that not only the european commission and parliament but also the council of ministers are accountable to them. at times, there is an unfair perception that important decisions are simply taken in brussels and then ‘imposed’ on national governments. making clear how ministers and prime ministers vote in the council will allow citizens to be better informed about how decisions are made on eu policies that affect them. the report should also be welcomed because it clarifies rules and imposes limits on which eu documents can be classified. parliament inserted a rule stating that eu documents can only be classified where their disclosure would undermine the essential interests of the eu or one of its member states, most notably on public security and defence matters. my hope is that we can now have constructive negotiations with the council and commission to reach an agreement and enhance the eu’s accountability and credibility with citizens.
