president. - i support mr tavares' request because it is not an urgent matter. mr battisti is in prison and there is no reason to believe that he will be released from there any time soon. i think we should not interfere in the individual cases of people who are still on trial.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the tunisian people for their bravery, courage and persistence in speaking up for opportunities and freedom, and i hope all can refrain from using violence and that there will be free and fair elections soon. citizens spoke out against an oppressive regime which has used bullets and killed its youth. only weak governments go to such lengths to preserve their artificially obtained corrupt power and wealth. regimes derive their legitimacy from providing for the well-being of their citizens, not from closing universities and access to information and free communications. with regard to access to information, the tunisian opposition used the internet, and the internet is becoming more and more important for peaceful opposition across the world. i learned about the uprising by the citizens’ movement in tunisia through the internet and eyewitness accounts that were posted there, but it took about a month of the struggle before mainstream media and political leaders woke up to the realities of the street. in the same week – last week – the french minister for foreign affairs offered help to the tunisian government in the form of riot police and assistance in policing. what is the commission’s reaction to that offer, and where was the help for citizens in support of their rights? (applause) the confrontation between the tunisian government and its people took place on the virtual highways of the internet as much as on the streets. the tunisian government was known for being among the most advanced in the use of filtering and censoring software, and over the past month it spared no efforts to repress people through these technologies. repressive regimes across the world continue to use technologies to silence free speech. today is martin luther king day and it was martin luther king who said that a time comes when silence becomes betrayal. commissioner füle, that time has arrived. the united states has lost significantly in terms of credibility in its fight for leadership in internet freedom. the eu has a struggle ahead, about which we will speak tonight in relation to the upcoming hungarian laws. but the young, freedom-loving generation across the world is looking to the symbolic example that tunisia has given and is looking to the eu for support, and there is no reason why we should not lead in defending people’s freedoms, including on the internet.
commission, as early as march 2010, the company responsible knew that it was selling products with dangerously high dioxin concentrations. how is it that this was not revealed in any of the official controls, so that measures could have been taken at that time? are the current mechanisms for monitoring our food safety really sufficient? apparently not, because then this dioxin crisis could have been avoided. food scandals follow one another. not only dioxin crises, but also the cloned products that came into our stores last year unseen. there are enough rules, but food safety controls must be carried out better and more frequently, and the results of these controls must be made public. this is about the safety of our food and the health of our citizens. i also call on the commission to support the farmers who were wronged and who unknowingly poisoned their own livestock in their claims for damages against the companies responsible.
the greens are strongly in favour of serbia's accession to the eu. that is why we welcome the unequivocal pro-european stance of the present government. but i do not think that the way in which the accession process is being handled by both sides is worthy of a beauty contest. the eu is simply being played. in order to support pro-european policies, serbia was granted visa-free travel before it fully met the criteria. in exchange for a moderate course for kosovo, serbia received the avis question in october. the eu is sending the message that it is not so much the criteria but the political game that determines the accession process. we should not have to reward serbia for behaving like a mature european democracy. we can expect serbia to assume a responsible role as a regional leader vis-à-vis kosovo, vis-à-vis bosnia, without having to be given a piece of candy in return as a small child. there is one thing we must stop conceding: the hunt for mladic and hadžić. we are talking about the perpetrators of horrendous war crimes, of genocide. they can't get away with this. serbia can and must do much more to stop them. full cooperation with the yugoslav tribunal must not be a game of diplomacy. the judgment on that should be left to the only person who can judge whether there is full cooperation, and that is prosecutor brammertz. that is why i ask you to vote in favour of our amendment which calls for this.
president, we must not only focus on the arrest and trial of the war criminal mladić. serbia has a huge problem with organized crime. this has been said by a number of speakers and we should not underestimate these problems. of course, progress has been made, but it is still far from sufficient to reach a normal standard. of course, serbia is a poor country, like all the other acceding countries. they are poor countries and that is going to cost the european citizen a lot of money. serbia is even more corrupt than romania and bulgaria. romania and bulgaria should never have been admitted to the union either. this leads to a lot of problems, given the corruption and serbia is even more corrupt. i also see that as a very persistent problem that cannot be solved easily. so don't underestimate that, is my call. furthermore, the possible accession of serbia, like the visa exemption, will lead to even more emigration to western europe, which we cannot use.
madam president, at the moment the economic crisis in serbia and the western balkans is intensifying. this precarious situation threatens to give rise to a renewed strengthening of populist and nationalist forces. commissioner füle, the time is not right to set up a development fund for the western balkans on the model of the post-war marshall plan. i have a second question for you, commissioner. an insider briefed me yesterday on the potential new fireplace in serbia. the activities of radical islamic forces in the sandbox are at issue. in this context, the name of the mufti of the zukorlić region is especially circulating. what information does the european commission have on this matter and what countermeasures is it considering?
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: serbia has clearly shown that it has made the choice to work towards a european future, but will have to work hard to do so. there are a number of obstacles to eventual eu membership. the last two main suspects of the yugoslav tribunal, goran hadžić and ratko mladić, have not yet been arrested. unfortunately, as the report by the prosecutor, mr brammertz, shows, serbia has not succeeded in convincing the international community that the search for these criminals is being carried out with all its might. according to brammertz, the serbian government is not doing the best it can to arrest the suspects, but the least necessary. a clear and united message from the serbian authorities is needed. it is also important that the european commission continues to exert much greater pressure on this. it is also important that the rights of women and gays remain high on serbia's agenda. i expect serbia to do everything possible to allow an open trial.
i would like to join my colleagues in paying tribute to the belgian presidency and to you, mr president, because at a time when the formation of the cabinet in your country was a drama in many companies, you really gave that presidency a european interpretation. i think you are failing yourself by calling yourself a facilitator, because you have been the driving force and have been able to bridge differences in a creative and committed way on very difficult issues, including with this parliament. that is why we now have strong european supervision, we have a directive on alternative investment funds and it is also a difficult subject when the eurovignette is now concluded in a clear council conclusion. but you are also looking ahead with that european spirit in your speech to this house. i would like to stress one point in particular from your speech. you are right to say that economic governance must not end in a symptomatic struggle, and that risk still exists, because a solid stability and growth pact may be coming, but that is only one pillar of economic governance. what we want for our citizens is that we really get out of this economic crisis, that we get jobs back for our citizens and also for young people, and then we also need a strong european macroeconomic surveillance and a very strong european 2020 strategy. is that really what the european semester is going to bring? will the member states commit themselves to giving economic governance its meaning in this area too? we as parliament will play our full co-legislative role in the governance package, the legislative package, to get that done.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution; in its programme, my party (the sgp) also clearly stresses the strategic importance of the sector, even calling agriculture the basis for food security. i must make a few points, however noble the ideas themselves. school milk and school fruit programmes should not be the eu's concern. leave that to the member states if they wish. i also voted against the paragraph on the relaxation and promotion of gmo imports. my party believes that gmos are not the solution to the world food problem. a link between higher yields and genetic modification has still not been established. we also believe that there are ethical questions of principle to be raised in the case of genetic modification. however, i am quite happy with the general tone of the resolution. the resolution once again highlights the importance of a strong and well-funded cap beyond 2013. i also think that the call for developing countries to use their agricultural land to secure food supplies, first and foremost for their own people, is of great importance and of great urgency.
president barroso, i would like to ask you in this house a question about the european emergency fund, also to underline the importance of your involvement in the debate on that emergency fund, because it is a european emergency fund. my question is: how do you feel about the expansion of the fund? you have spoken a great deal about this, but you have mainly spoken about how it should be decided and within what time limits. the government bond market is fairly quiet at the moment, but that could change. hence my question: what is your view on this expansion of the emergency fund?
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. what exactly do you mean by 'better sooner than later', because i think there is a certain urgency to ensure stability in the financial markets for the coming months and then action helps. at the moment we are seeing debates mainly between heads of government and between finance ministers, so what is the timing "sooner or later"? could you be a little more specific?
president, jerusalem is the only eternal and indivisible capital of the jewish state of israel. jerusalem is and always will be, from east to west, israeli territory. the european union has every right to be proud of israel. in the middle east, it is the only democracy in a sea of dictatorial regimes. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. the commission will agree with me. the european union's support for the jewish state of israel should therefore be taken for granted. the european union must send a clear signal to the international community that the eu's diplomatic representation belongs only in jerusalem. i would therefore like to ask mr barroso whether he agrees with me that the israeli diplomatic mission should be moved immediately from ramat gan to the israeli capital jerusalem. if not, why not? the same should of course be done, mr president, for the future eu embassy in jerusalem. we are against these embassies, but if they come, they will come to jerusalem.
i am, of course, disappointed by the answer, mr president, but you are indeed talking about east jerusalem and this week the commission also condemned israel's plans to build 1,400 houses in gilo. now i wonder how exactly the jerusalem municipality is going to deal with that, because they are getting applications for building permits in east and west jerusalem. in both areas they do distribute them to arabs and to israelis and what the commission is actually saying and has been saying for the past week is: you have to discriminate in east jerusalem, because the city is one whole anyway, we can't change that, the city is governed by one municipality. what, then, do you say to the jerusalem congregation's governing body, what should they do with israelites who are perfectly within their rights to apply for a building permit in an area where they are allowed to live?
president, innovation is going to change our economy, our society and it must also create jobs; the european union has a long tradition of innovation and innovation is one of the european union's most important initiatives. i would therefore like to ask you to take a more integrated approach in your commission, with all the dgs together. for example, there are innovation partnerships currently under way which are actually mainly in one directorate-general; it really needs to be a more holistic approach. i also believe that the funds should be more closely linked and that fragmentation should be avoided, preferably in one fund, including the structural funds. i ask you to really look at this and create one big suction in the direction of innovation in cooperation with the member states. let me tell you something else about energy. we're always very big-eyed, especially. and with innovation, it always has to be big, but sometimes the truth is in the small. i think there's very little attention to locally generated energy. i think that's where the empowerment lies for the citizens. i would like to ask you, together with all the other members, to give us binding targets.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the healthcare sector is not left behind. the new directive makes care a tradable commodity. the most affluent are first helped where the care is most plentiful and cheapest. the proposal maintains the division of care. i wonder how many of my colleagues can relate to this. care is a basic need that should be equally accessible to all. the members who vote in favour tomorrow may think they are doing a service to the patients, but that is not the case at all. i am in favour of anything that promotes the rights of the patient, but if this directive is adopted, we can expect a lot of trouble in this context; i'll give you a few examples. insurance companies will gladly send patients across the border if there is a cheaper treatment option. this will reduce the availability of care in your own country. care that is no longer profitable will disappear from more expensive regions. patients have no choice, no right, but they have to cross the border. patients from regions where care is cheaper will not have the opportunity to move to another region. the additional costs are not automatically reimbursed. the health tourism envisaged by this directive is therefore reserved for the rich. then the cheap regions and the regions with short waiting times. they will eventually receive so many health tourists that their own local care will be supplanted. we read an example in the belgian newspaper de standaard on monday and i can assure you that more examples will follow. i believe that every patient has the right to good care close to home, in his own language and with his own family. instead, europe is encouraging care abroad and letting the market do its job. whoever agrees with this, vote in favour tomorrow; those who agree with me should certainly vote against.
the question is how to build a state that has failed. haiti is a failed state. is there really any question of reconstruction if there was no democracy? that is the task we see before us. the commission has made a great effort to answer this question, but we have not yet had a simple answer. the cholera epidemic, the fraud in the november elections and the intimidation of people are of course not helping us in the so-called reconstruction of this state. the fact that the position of women and girls was already terrible before the earthquake, leads to the fact that sexual violence against women and girls in the refugee camps is still incredible. in addition, baby doc is back in haiti and may be thinking he can help the people in their plight because - rumor has it - his money is finally running out. we do not give that to the haitians. what is our response after the disaster, now that they have been trying to build something for a year, but they actually lack the organizational capacity, so they are still on emergency aid and we have to go to development cooperation. something's missing in between. i do not think that can be invented, but it is something we must try to do because this country cannot build if it does not have democracy or at least good governance. i wish commissioners georgieva and piebalgs strength in that regard. good luck with that.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in haiti, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in haiti. yet, progress is being made gradually. the people of haiti are in dire need of our help, especially now that the cholera epidemic is also taking its toll. the emphasis must be on food security. the local agricultural sector has been hit hard, making the country too dependent on food imports. it is important to invest a lot of energy and money in the redevelopment of agriculture and local infrastructure. microcredit is of paramount importance in this respect, as it stimulates economic development from below. does the commission share this view? meanwhile, the political situation in haiti remains worrying after the first round of presidential elections. the evaluation report of the organization of american states, which was published last week, is clear on this point. how does the commission assess the current political situation in haiti and its impact on the reconstruction of the country? finally, madam president, an impressive book on haiti by a dutch journalist was published last week and one image has remained in my mind: haiti rubbish collectors wore t-shirts that read "haiti will not perish". this should inspire us to ensure that the haitian people are kept alive and given a good future prospect thanks to our support.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when i think of haiti, i think of the people of haiti, but i also think of the people of europe who have given an incredible amount of support to the people of haiti. i also think of the aid workers who have done an incredible amount. that, mr president, is the positive side of the story. we have to learn. the lessons to be learned are, as far as i am concerned, three. first, there is coordination. the coordination of humanitarian aid has not been very successful - we have received a report on this today. i'm gonna have to do better than that when we rebuild. i think then of the effectiveness of aid, because that too has to do with coordination. what can you do more and more effectively there? the second point, mr president, is corruption. if we want our european citizens to give aid, they do not want that aid to be misused. we do not want that as governments, nor do we want that as citizens. what can we do to ensure that, through better coordination, that corruption does not get a hold on those systems? the third point, mr president, is the political aspect. without political stability and a very effective public administration, this sustainable development cannot succeed at all. we've had a contested first round of the election. i would like to ask you: how is the coordination with the organization of american states and other players to ensure that the upcoming elections are going well? we europeans have made a commitment to haiti in the short term and i think we must remain in solidarity.
- a writer. - the proposal for a regulation (com (88) 0406 final - doc. c3-0310/98) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the proposal for a regulation (c3-0310/98) by the commission on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the proposal for a regulation (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the european parliament (c3-0310/98) we too felt that the situation on the ground was very serious. we saw a landfill in a national park on top of mount vesuvius. we saw many illegal dumping sites, we saw burning debris. i even took industrial waste out of a mountain that had been labeled as household waste, and we also saw a nonfunctioning incinerator - or so it seemed. one thing is clear: it is not working there at the moment and i agree with previous speakers that there seems to be a lot of political wrangling about who exactly did it. we have indeed called for all political differences to be put aside and for politicians and citizens to come together to resolve the situation. i see no solution in the meantime. i have not seen a plan here - at least not in public - and i hope you can clarify whether there is a plan. the citizens of campania told us very clearly last year: "we knocked on every door, we knocked on every door, on our own in the province, on our own in the region, on our own in italy, on the italian government, and we got zero on the counter everywhere. our last hope is the european union, and while no one listened to us, the european union came to us to listen. " they have placed their hopes in you and us, hoping that we will eventually be able to contribute in some way to a solution in their region. of course, they must resolve the situation on the ground themselves. unfortunately, we cannot take the dirt out of the country with our own hands. you, on the other hand, are a key player in these. can you clearly state whether there is a plan, whether it is a quality plan and, if not, what you intend to do about it? what are the deadlines? when does it have to be implemented and how long are you prepared to wait? when will you finally go to the european court of justice for sanctions and what will happen to the structural funds which are currently frozen? this is not just a garbage crisis; and another can also lead to dangerous health situations. how does the european commission deal with this? this is not your area, but perhaps you can answer the question of whether you are inclined to do so. the mafia is clearly involved. it is not the direct responsibility of the european commission, nor of us, to do anything about it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how can we further support this, perhaps by sharing best practices? how can the member states help each other in this respect? do not think that in this case garbage is not a problem but an opportunity. campania can take a giant leap forward into a recycling society. i believe that we should actually be calling for a complete ban on landfilling and a ban on landfills at european level.
author. − madam president, we are discussing today, and not for the first time, legislation that may be passed by the lithuanian parliament with a potentially very negative effect on the position of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) people in lithuania. i think it is unfortunate that we are discussing the subject again, as parliament has already passed a resolution on it. i think the resolution we have proposed for vote tomorrow is very clear. we would appeal to our lithuanian colleagues to reflect further on this matter and to make sure that whatever legislation they pass will not discriminate against lgbt people. i do not have much to say about the resolution, but i think it is becoming increasingly clear that the european union needs to equip itself with stronger legal instruments for the enforcement of fundamental rights. we recently debated the controversial media law in hungary and now we are facing very similar issues. we have laid down the principles – the shared values of 500 million citizens – in the european treaties but, when it comes to putting them into practice, we run into trouble. therefore, commissioner, i would like to hear your views on our proposal for a european road map for lgbt rights. the european union has done a lot for gender equality in the past and, indeed, we have regular road maps for gender equality. we have all sorts of strategies to combat racism and xenophobia, to combat social exclusion and to strengthen fundamental rights, but not for lgbt people. i think it is very urgent and very necessary that we have such a strategy: a strategy to fight prejudice, ignorance, discrimination and hatred and to strengthen the rights of lgbt people. there are many examples of the problem. today we are discussing the amendments which have been put to the lithuanian parliament, but that should not distract us from the fact that homophobia exists in all member states. i would like to bring another fact to your attention, commissioner, and to hear your views on it. this concerns the european asylum policy, and the fact is that people seeking asylum because they are prosecuted on grounds of their sexual orientation in a member state which i will not name have to undergo something known as a phallometric test. this is particularly degrading. it has no place in the european union and i would like to hear what the commission intends to do about it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the provision of the proposed amendment may not only have very serious consequences for the lgbt community in lithuania, but is again an example of legislation that can be used against the recognition of same-sex partnerships and marriages from other member states. we have already discussed this in this house in september last year, and since there were still questions at that time, we sent a letter together with other members of the european parliament to clarify the situation. your european commissioner has sent a reply in which you state, among other things, that the right of residence of such couples is recognised by european law. so my question to you is: will you now insist that lithuania does so, even if one of the partners is not a national of a member state? i want a very clear answer to this. i read in the commission's work programme that the commission will draw up a legislative proposal in 2013 on the mutual recognition of the effects of certain civil status acts. my question is: is that also a proposal for the mutual recognition of partnerships and marriages, and if so, i welcome that in itself, but why not in 2013? the commission has announced that it will take the necessary action once the services have analysed the lithuanian legislation and my question is: has this analysis been carried out and have the services considered the implications for the recognition of same-sex couples from other member states? what steps will the commission take next against lithuania, but also against romania, for example, which has explicitly excluded recognition by law? finally, commissioner, you promised during the september debates that you would respond quickly to the report of the human rights agency on homophobia. in your letter, however, you simply refer to the commission's annual report. do you not think that, in the light of the events in lithuania, this matter should be given much more attention, and can you promise us that you will come forward with a separate report on homophobia in the european union as soon as possible?
the european union is not a party to the treaty of lisbon, but it is a party to the treaty of lisbon. the parliament there seems to be becoming more and more brazen in restricting the rights of gays. we have to take action against that. the eu's values and laws are not à la carte - these are, and these are not. if you want to be a member of the eu, you have to stick to everything. that is true of lithuania, but it is also true of france and the netherlands. for example, suppose that in the future the netherlands wanted to start talking about the rights of migrants. we must act, because if this is possible, then that means that nobody can really feel well protected in the union. i am glad that the commissioner has started a legal analysis immediately and i hope that very soon there will be a follow-up. it is not possible that people should first be victims of these laws and then have to go to the european court of human rights to claim their rights as eu citizens from their neighbours.
president, ladies and gentlemen, among all the beautiful empty words of mr barroso, i have heard one thing in particular: that the rich countries pay for the weak member states, because that is the reality. it looks like it's gonna be a long time. we must help other countries, we hear, but how we do it, it is not said. the main thing is that the dutch citizens have to pull out the purse strings and pay for the weak member states which have sometimes joined the euro by fraud. barroso says, choose sustainable growth. all those empty words. but how we do that, he doesn't say. and what if it doesn't work? why not work out a scenario where countries like greece can reinstate their own currency? that does not seem possible and you are not prepared to work out these kinds of scenarios, whereas many economists think that these scenarios could work very well and might be the best choice. then create the conditions for growth and jobs. how are we supposed to do that? i hear mainly that this must be done by reducing public spending and that is exactly what we are doing in the netherlands. and what is the european union doing? it rewards the netherlands with even more spending. you remember that you wanted a 6% increase in the eu budget, and of course the dutch people are the main beneficiaries of that increase, so you are very unreliable in that respect too. in short, what my point here is: the netherlands pays for the weak countries by lower economic growth in the netherlands. dutch citizens are exposed to 27 billion in risk capital and that figure seems only to be rising. every year we pay 4.5 billion net to this eu which flows mainly to the weak countries, eu expenditure is increasing while we have to cut back and the euro is becoming less and less valuable, which also increases the price for the dutch citizen. president, this eu is unbelievable.
the european council establishes a permanent emergency fund for the euro area. this may be necessary to regain the confidence of financial markets in the sovereign bonds of weak euro area countries. it is a question of the foundations of our economic and monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. i would have liked to see the european council say more about the major inequalities within the euro area, including the difference in competitive position between member states. will the diversity within monetary union prove too great for a uniform interest rate? or are there adequate solutions to the differences in competitiveness, budgetary and social and economic structure? to this end, any additional guarantees for the temporary emergency fund must be accompanied by concrete agreements and progress in structural reforms and austerity measures in the weak euro countries. i wish the member states in the council of ministers much wisdom in deciding this! the aim must be to ensure that the agreements are respected and that we do not go too far again. the member states and the european commission therefore have a great responsibility.
president, this european parliament and the member states are measuring by two measures. we talk a lot about civil rights and a free press for countries that want to join the european union, but it does not seem to apply to the members of this society. are the copenhagen criteria sacrosanct for us, or are they really only for new members? member states are looking the other way. if i leave you alone, you leave me alone! hungary is even asking to be left alone. that is a strange attitude for a president of the european union. it is your task, prime minister orbán, to lead this european union and to encourage countries to draw closer to one another. withdrawal movements are not part of that. then there is our parliament, the institution which should uphold the values of europe. we're not doing that! mr president, it was a pleasure to speak my truth and my balanced opinion here again.
madam president, the hungarian presidency has had a bad start. the hungarian government has not set a good example for the european union with the new media regulations. the new law gives a media authority very wide powers and thus puts the start of the hungarian presidency in a doubtful light. this law is just one element in a series of questionable developments in hungary. the dominance of one political party silences other voices. the 17th-century french writer, rochefoucauld, warned of it: "few are wise enough to prefer constructive criticism to deceptive praise". my advice to the presidency is to take rochefoucauld's words to heart, both as eu president and as the government of hungary.
madam president, everyone in europe knows from the debate on the media law in hungary that hungary is now the president of the european union and that has been different at times. i think it is right that the prime minister has referred the bill to the european commission and we look forward with confidence to the european commission's opinion. the four priorities of the hungarian presidency. growth and jobs. firstly, mr president, the administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. what exactly are you going to do? the digital agenda: china will not wait for europe. then, second priority, a stronger europe. at the moment, mr president, we are facing water on our lips in europe. it is no longer the rise in sea level that is at issue, but the rise in the rhine, the po and the moselle. i'd like to draw your attention to that, too. then, civic friendliness: what are we going to do about schengen, romania and bulgaria, and the admission of croatia? finally, mr president, hungary has imposed a crisis tax on foreign companies. a tax which is contrary to the internal market. when will it be abolished?
president, lithuania is a sovereign member state. the country's parliament is discussing new proposals on sexual expression in the media and in public. the country's democracy is working at full capacity. the country's president has twice blocked similar legislation. the political debate on the new proposals has begun and its outcome is still to be seen. the european parliament is plunging into this matter by a majority. the majority of this parliament, like the illuminated moral compass, knows exactly what is and is not allowed. and before it is clear whether new legislation will be introduced and what it will look like, the all-seeing eye of the parliamentary high priests has fallen on lithuania. i cannot possibly support such arrogance.
in writing. − the economic partnership agreements should promote trade between the eu and papua new guinea and fiji and contribute to trade, development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction. regional integration is of great importance for the development of these countries. the commission should therefore explain how these interim agreements contribute to this. it is important that a final agreement be concluded with the countries of the region. the relaxed rules of origin offer good opportunities for papua new guinea to promote the local economy. however, it is important to check that the poorest countries are not used merely as transit countries for products from other countries, which are not entitled to use this special access scheme. the importance of the local economy is paramount. the commission should monitor implementation and, if the impact study reveals serious market distortions, appropriate measures should be taken.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, religious conviction is an individual matter with a different meaning to different people. the role of the state is to protect all citizens, regardless of their conviction, and to allow them to freely associate and express themselves across the world. a glance at our world today shows a very bleak picture: from the bah’ai in iran to copts in egypt, from the use of blasphemy laws in pakistan to the attacks on christians or places of worship in iraq and nigeria. today we highlight the increased violence against christians specifically, which provides a reason for great concern. it is incredibly painful that people attack and get attacked, both in the name of religion, and people of all faiths are victims. it is unacceptable to see that some individuals, extremists, choose to use violence and even terrorism and do so in the name of god or in the name of a religion, claiming thereby to speak on behalf of others or even seeking to be above the law and thus associating countless innocent people with this violence. but let us not be mistaken. by giving the extremists more credit than they deserve, by accepting the link between religion and terrorism, we disqualify the majority of believers who, in the diverse ways in which they do, practice their faith peacefully. terrorism is political and terrorism is a crime. religion can never be a credible or acceptable reason to use violence or to breach human rights. too often this does happen, not only through violence but also in limiting freedom of expression such as through the abuse of blasphemy laws. religion or conviction should never be a reason for people to live in fear and the european parliament rightly speaks out against the extremist acts against christians and supports those who condemn this extremism.
mrs. ashton, thank you so much for coming. how often have we not spoken in this house about the christians in somalia, sudan, egypt, syria, turkey, iraq, iran, afghanistan, pakistan and malaysia. how many questions have this parliament, my group and i asked about the structural disadvantage of christians in these muslim countries? that's why i think the time for talking and beautiful explanations is over. it's time to act. i have two specific questions for mrs ashton. firstly, the tasks of the european external action service should remain limited, but one task must be taken very seriously by the service: standing up for persecuted christians. so, set up a separate unit within the department to do this. secondly, the european union has bilateral agreements with all these countries. freeze those treaties, put them in the fridge today! hit those governments in the pocket until they demonstrably improve safety for christians. i would like to hear your answer to my two specific questions.
mr president, the joint resolution rightly condemns the aggression against religious minorities in europe itself. a jewish student in my country, the netherlands, wrote exactly one month ago: "i'm getting numb, numb to the paradox of secured freedom. if i have to leave tomorrow, where can i live without security? england or france? no, there is the same problem". my question is: europe sometimes faces a future without a jewish community in the member states. the test of the sum of european spiritual values. the same applies to the european attitude towards a largely forgotten group of christians in the middle east, the palestinian christian minority in gaza and the west bank. it can count on the european union to provide concrete support, especially when christian organizations are making efforts to provide handicapped palestinian children, regardless of their faith, with a real home. palestinian christians have a particularly difficult time in the labour market, especially as self-employed. to avoid trouble, they usually keep quiet about their daily problems. the council and the commission, as important donors to the palestinian community, should also represent its interests, madam high representative, and be its voice.
president, madam high representative, freedom of religion and belief protects both religions and non-theistic and even atheistic beliefs. these views may conflict, and states have a duty to promote tolerance and to stand up for all those who face discrimination or violence because of their beliefs. i wholeheartedly support the joint resolution now before us. not because i think we should be concerned only about christians, but because christians are facing intolerance in an increasing number of lands today. incidentally, i would have done the same if it had been a matter of another religion. the iies needs a lot of capacity in this area. i myself have held a similar post in the dutch ministry of foreign affairs. it requires a lot of human effort and commitment to become a guide in the human rights violations, tensions and conflicts based on religion and belief, and also in sincere efforts to dialogue and tolerance. i hope, therefore, madam high representative, that you will follow the recommendation to free up manpower for this.
mr president, looking at the images in baghdad and alexandria, it seems as if we were half a millennium back in time. then we had the dutch hooks and cod quarrels where protestants and catholics fought each other in a war. mr president, that is no longer appropriate in today's european society. i also see, when i look at baghdad and alexandria, that they are just gross expressions of what lives under the skin in a great many countries. that is why i say that the european union, in the context of this cultural dialogue, but also in the context of the freedoms we have jointly established, must ensure that in every treaty, in every member state with which we do business, in every report we write - and i am doing the same in the report on turkey - that freedom of religious practice must be at the forefront. that also means - as mrs pack has just said - that those freedoms must be reciprocal and that where islam is not the majority religion, that freedom of religion must be respected. i think, mr president, that the intolerance and the violence that have now taken place are unacceptable and that we must denounce them in dialogue with each other. i therefore ask mrs ashton, together with her staff, to ensure that in all contacts with countries, the issue of freedom of religion is raised very consistently with the authorities; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, the brutal repression of any political alternative to the lukashenko regime since the election day of 19 december 2010 has clearly reduced minsk's external space of play. the belarusian shuttle diplomacy between brussels and moscow of the past three years has been crudely interrupted on its own initiative. politically and economically, lukashenko is currently strongly tied to the kremlin. this relationship of dependence calls for a stronger european involvement in belarusian civil society. then proceed with mind change as a necessary step to regime change. it is a sign of european solidarity. for example, reduce the cost of fish for belarusians as quickly as possible. in addition, engage in a critical strategy discussion with the belarusian political opposition, keeping a close eye on the reformist forces within the power apparatus. that is balanced politics. brussels must not abandon minsk now. the white russians have no russian or chinese rights, but an independent path towards a free society, a democratic state based on the rule of law.
mr president, in life, and certainly in politics, hope is very important. hope offers perspective, hope makes people believe that things will get better in the future, and hope is precisely what has disappeared in belarus on 19 december and since. hopefully, this election will be more democratic than the last. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. they all flew away. this is precisely why the eu must change its policy towards belarus. the policy of rapprochement with the regime has unfortunately not worked. the eu will have to impose sanctions on the belarusian authorities. sanctions that do not affect the citizens, but those in power. for example, by revoking all visas of the rulers and their families. the latter is important to address the intersection between political power and economic power. fortunately, lady ashton is on that road. the commission has also responded by calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners. this parliament can also do something by sending a mission to belarus as soon as possible to show support for the opposition, the free media and the ngos. with them and through them the new belarus will have to be shaped. finally, mr president, the eu will have to give a new impetus to the neighbourhood programme. this programme has not yet been sufficiently developed. we must not only help the citizens of moldova, ukraine, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan to develop, but we must also show belarus how important it is for its own country to seek closer ties with europe. in this way, even the belarusian citizens can regain hope.
the european commission has provided the rogue state of libya and the dictator gaddafi with a new export product. libya is not only making money from oil production, but now also from blackmailing europe. the dictator gaddafi will raise 60 million euros from european taxpayers to stop african fortune seekers from coming to europe. the 60 million is just the beginning, because even now gaddafi is threatening to raise that price to 5 billion euros a year. the european commission may have been led by the sweet face of gaddafi, but i don't trust that man for a penny. i have some articles from the past few years: gaddafi is demanding billions from the eu. libya is threatening london and edinburgh. gaddafi wants more money to prevent europe from turning black. gaddafi: what are you doing? "islam must become the religion of europe". gaddafi rejects democracy and strives for strict adherence to the sharia. gaddafi is threatening to take 30 million africans who want to come to europe. gaddafi wants jihad against switzerland. the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, should not reward but punish the villain gaddafi if libya continues to allow so many refugees to cross freely into europe. we should not reward refugees with refugee status and permanent residency, but send them back to africa immediately. rewarding refugees with european refugee status, benefits and training, will create an even greater flow of asylum seekers, with many victims drowning in their attempt to set foot on the european continent. it is the european union's generous and lax asylum policy that is causing the large influx of asylum seekers.
- a writer. - mr president, sometimes we are victims of our own working methods. if we had had one asylum directive which would have regulated both the procedures, the assessment criteria and the reception, there would have been only two possibilities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it would have been better if we could have said from the european parliament: the commission has not yet adopted a common asylum policy, nor a dublin system. the reality is different. there are different guidelines. the council may give priority to one at its discretion, while the other is considered too controversial. we will then be faced with the situation where we could have a new dublin regulation but no agreement on, for example, asylum procedures or reception. let us take a good look at what that means. we then put the responsibility for processing an asylum application on the member states without any guarantee that such an application will be dealt with properly and that asylum seekers will be received in a humane manner. i think that is totally unacceptable, especially in the present situation. that is why i ask the council and the commission: how will you ensure that the directive on asylum procedures is taken out of the rubble without any loss of quality? you will soon receive from parliament a number of proposals to improve the directive. will you try to convey the clear signal of the european people's representatives to the member states and will you stand by and watch if member states insist on an à la carte approach? finally, a clarification. you do not see anything in my question about the cost of the asylum procedure, not because i am not sensitive to that, but because it is my priority that asylum seekers should be treated as human beings. that means proper procedure and proper accommodation. if that is not properly arranged, i do not wish to participate in any other sharing initiative. i hope that in particular i have the commission on my side.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. we have worked in tandem (me being last year’s rapporteur), and that brings me to my first point. it strikes me about these annual debates on competition policy that there is a very friendly and polite exchange of views, and then the commission just carries on with business as usual because the commission has the exclusive powers in this area. i think, at a time where we are discussing economic governance for the european union, that should change. the european parliament should have a much bigger role in shaping competition policies, and i therefore urge the commission to follow, in particular, recommendations 3 and 4 and really seriously report back to the european parliament about its recommendations. secondly, in my view a report should be more than a mere summary of actions taken. it should be an analysis of the impact of the competition policies, and that is currently lacking. you say that you will do one on the temporary state aid framework because that is your priority, but we have been calling for such analyses for years: on green recovery, on state aid to innovation, on state aid to public services. that is long overdue, so i would ask the commission to do more in-depth analysis. finally i would urgently reiterate the calls we have been making – for years now – for a sector inquiry into online advertising and search engines. this is really long overdue, and i would like to hear from the commission when they intend to conduct such an inquiry.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gahler, for his excellent report. mr president, the arctic is of strategic importance, especially now that the warming of the arctic region seems to open the way for transport and resource extraction there. it is also an area where the environment is very vulnerable, mainly due to pollution from europe, north america, russia and china. a complicating factor is that national claims to the arctic are not always clear, although until iceland's accession the eu did not have an arctic coastline, the eu does have arctic member states. i therefore support an eu strategy for the far north in order to make a consistent stand against other major powers, in particular russia, which is clearly seeking to exploit the area economically. if economic activity is to intensify in the coming years, a balance must be struck between the environment and the economy, involving the local population. an observer status for the eu at the arctic council would be a good step in the right direction.
the black sea is close by and is truly european, even from the energy point of view. as the shadow rapporteur on the itre committee for the epp and as the coordinator for regional policy, i would like to endorse that. the black sea offers a great prospect. and cooperation is the key here. we have just heard about the investments in nabucco; only stable relationships can make things work. the european union is also committed to the development of the region. in short, the added value of such strategies is beyond doubt, it is very clear. mr brok has also mentioned this. i believe that the diversification of our energy supply is a priority in a much broader context. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr ungureanu, for this strong and necessary report.
author. − mr president, there is a fundamental struggle going on in pakistan and the extremism that we have seen has to end, especially the abusive blasphemy laws. these are leading to a climate of fear and intolerance and, in the worst cases, extremism. the fight against extremism is not an easy task, which is why the pakistani government and all those citizens who agree that intolerance and extremism are unacceptable need our support. we have to continue to wipe out terrorism. the governor, mr taseer, was violently murdered out of sheer intolerance by a guard from his own security detail, a person who should have protected him. his daughter, shehrbano, wrote a letter which was published in the new york times, from which i would like to quote, because i think she gets to the essence and it is very good to use her words in memory of her father. she says of the perpetrator: ‘mr qadri and his supporters may have felled a great oak that day, but they are sadly mistaken if they think they have succeeded in silencing my father’s voice or the voices of millions like him who believe in the secular vision of pakistan’s founder, muhammed ali jinnah’. she continues: ‘there are those who say my father’s death was the final nail in the coffin for a tolerant pakistan. that pakistan’s liberal voices will now be silenced. but we buried a heroic man, and not the courage he inspired others’. others followed in their condemnation of the blasphemy laws, even conservative politicians. we have to support that here in the european parliament. the daughter of governor taseer went to smith college and she studied european politics and human rights, but too many people in pakistan are educated in madrasahs. we have to make sure that the young generation has opportunities, and learns how to live together in the diverse society which is pakistan.
author. - mr president, exactly one week ago, the nobel prize winner shirin ebadi published a poignant article in the wall street journal about her friend, the iranian human rights lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, who had just been sentenced to 11 years in prison. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the debate in this house is partly a response to the pressing call from mr ebadi. we cannot and will not forget nasrin sotoudeh and her fellow fighters for fundamental rights in iran. the report i am hoping to present to the house in march on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, will show that, and i count on your vote in favour of it. one strong, united european voice for the freedoms of the iranian people.
author. − mr president, once again we are forced to speak about human rights in iran, after nasrin sotoudeh was sentenced to 11 years in jail. she is banned from practising law, but let us serve justice. the rule of law is no longer practised or existent in iran, and the judiciary is highly politicised. defending human rights is now considered an act against national security. nasrin sotoudeh, lawyer and mother of two, is charged with acting against national security. she defended, among others, zahra bahrami, an iranian-dutch citizen who was sentenced to death before dutch diplomats had talked to her, and in a climate of serious doubts about due process. as strong a woman as nasrin sotoudeh is and was, by standing for justice, we see a weak regime that represses its citizens instead of providing for their well-being. high representative ashton will be in istanbul later this month in an attempt to bring the iranian regime to cooperate with the international community on the nuclear issue. economic sanctions have the same aim. i doubt they will render the desired result before disproportionately hurting the people of iran who, as a result, become more and more dependent on the hardline government. however, while i am sceptical about the impact of economic sanctions, i am confident that sanctions against individuals responsible for violating human rights through, for example, censorship, rape, torture and executions, will be an effective and necessary step to end impunity and to honour the justice that nasrin sotoudeh stood for. human rights are clearly the achilles heel of the iranian regime. mr president, while i have the floor, may i ask you to encourage our italian colleagues to be quiet because it is really distracting when they start speaking in the chamber after their business has been dealt with.
mr president, very briefly: the new text in paragraph 8 should be added after the appeal at the end of the paragraph, and in paragraph 17 it was agreed to delete ‘ratify fully and without’ and replace it by ‘withdraw the reservations on’. these are simply factual changes to the text.
special times call for special policies and it is right that energy and innovation should be given a place on the council's agenda, especially as we are emerging from the crisis. these are key issues for our european competitiveness and also for employment in the near future. we have enough figures and reports. we must move forward now, make progress. we are lagging behind, particularly in the area of crossborder infrastructures and interconnections. we must now move on to new instruments, such as project bonds and greater use of guarantee institutions through the eib to facilitate investment. the second point is, of course, innovation. this week the european innovation scoreboard was released. you see countries falling behind. understandably, in a time of crisis, but should we not also use other instruments? the structural funds, for example, which must be publicly co-financed to get things done. at a time when this is almost impossible, much more emphasis should be placed on public investment and innovation. the minister also pointed this out. this kind of innovation should get things going without us having to come up with a new money bag. this will certainly help us to achieve the 2020 goals (sustainable, smart and people at work). i wish you success.
it is not surprising that the disturbing political events in tunisia and egypt are being closely followed in the islamic republic of iran. both the government and the opposition support the voice of the street. and, interestingly, both claim this arab popular uprising. the iranian regime welcomes the arrival of the revolutionary wave, which began in its own country in 1979 and is now manifesting itself in the arab world, and the iranian opposition considers itself the instigator of the mass popular protests in tunis and cairo. with the pragmatic arab camp in the middle east threatening to break up, the iranian leadership is now giving more reason for optimism than the opposition. the european union must not turn a blind eye to this danger. the radicalization of the arab world is not in any way accompanied by the dignity of life that the tunisian and egyptian protesters rightly claim to want. the islamic republic of iran is not a model, but a stop sign.
mrs. ashton, you're being naive. and mr. guy verhofstadt, you are not to be. the muslim brotherhood wants sharia law, and sharia law is not democracy. the main opposition party, the muslim brotherhood, wants war with israel. mrs. ashton, i don't want to hear a word you say about that. you are here to display the naivete of calling for a better future for egypt, but you refuse to speak out against the dangers facing islam. because islam and democracy don't mix. i want you to say that, because i don't want some naive mrs ashton going to egypt with the wrong message. mrs. ashton, see the dangers that egypt and us face and speak out. warn the egyptian people that sharia law means disaster, disaster for all of us. (the president declared his readiness to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i can only agree with the questioner. of course, this cannot happen by chance, but i see no alternative for egypt, because i cannot appoint anyone in egypt who will then have to take the lead. it is the egyptians themselves who must choose their leaders. we can call on the egyptians not to choose the muslim brotherhood but to choose secular leaders.
madam president, right now, as we stand here, citizens in egypt are being trapped and attacked in tahrir square and the army and the police are reportedly attacking instead of protecting. in their peaceful protests egyptians of diverse backgrounds ask for respect for human rights and democracy, political reform and good governance, and socio-economic development. perhaps these demands sound familiar to you as they are precisely the goals of eu programmes in the middle east, and in egypt specifically. the commission alone has spent a total of almost eur 3 billion on this in the past 15 years. as the people’s demands are already in line with our policy objectives, why is it so difficult to make a strong eu statement quickly? the need for a strong, proactive europe is more urgent than ever. as the sun of freedom and democracy rises over the middle east, clouds of division are hampering european unity and the ability to take responsibility. i urge you to look at what is happening as we speak and to act in unequivocal support of the people. their rights and the eu’s credibility are tied. another phenomenon consistently present in the relations between people and dictatorships is communication and information technologies. the tunisian government ranked among the most severe users of censorship, surveillance and filter technologies to repress citizens. european companies, such as vodafone and french telecom, have had a strong presence in egypt and in killing the connections by flipping the switch and shutting egypt down. i would like to see an inquiry into the role that european companies played in the violations of human rights by hampering free expression, a free press and access to information and creating an environment in which human rights violations could go undocumented.
we are witnessing the birth of a new state and i am very happy but also worried. south sudan is one of the poorest countries in africa. it's also a country with a lot of oil in the ground. it is also a country to which many people are returning, refugees without a roof over their heads, without food and without work. that is a recipe for accidents and even a recipe for armed conflict. if a solution is not found between the oil in the ground in south sudan and the port in the north which has to ship this oil, then, as my colleague mr goerens says, there will indeed be an international conflict. so what can we do? europe must be there and it must remain there. why not a eupol mission to south sudan to help establish the rule of law, to give this country a fresh, new chance of its own and who knows, that country may become an example in africa. i'm helping them hope!
for the epp group all signs point to the fact that the referendum in south sudan on 9 january will result in almost unanimous support for independence. that is perfectly understandable, fair, yes, acceptable. the south sudanese have been fighting a 23-year civil war with the arab north, which has killed 2.5 million civilians and displaced more than 4 million. and that is not to mention the northern slave hunts, which may have claimed the lives of hundreds of thousands of south sudanese women and children. against this historical background, it goes without saying that the youngest state in the making can use any international help in its reconstruction. and that certainly includes a reliable police apparatus. and just last week, i received some disturbing news. there are serious abuses at the new police academy in rajaf. i would like to ask for european attention and commitment to this, as well as to all the urgent matters of state facing south sudan.
these are apocalyptic times. from mauritania to oman, peoples are drifting. worldwide, thousands die in natural disasters. in america and europe, the dance around the golden calf of the euro and the dollar is getting increasingly wild. christians are persecuted in many lands. no one knows when the completion of history will be there, but the bible commands us to be watchful and ready. in the midst of this global turmoil, we see a wonderful development: the birth of south sudan. after many years of oppression and war, the people of south sudan are being freed from the house of slavery. the people of south sudan are being freed from the workhouse run by the internationally wanted criminal omar al bashir. that is a cause for great gratitude and joy. i would like to congratulate my south sudanese friends here today. i pray for wisdom for the new land, that justice and righteousness may flourish there. be a land where kindness and loyalty meet. be a nation where justice and peace kiss each other. and i ask the commission, in the person of mr barnier, to recognize the new state of south sudan immediately, as soon as possible. and let that recognition be followed by action. support south sudan wherever possible. make this country the spearhead of your foreign policy. i would like to hear your specific response to my request.
for decades the european union has pursued a protectionist trade policy, including in the banana sector. import taxes are supposed to deter latin american bananas and at the same time subsidies are given away to poorly competitive exporting countries. the bulk of these subsidies go to the regions outside the european union, almost eur 300 million a year: the european union is a major player in the world economy. the european union is all too happy to present itself as the champion of international law and free trade, always ready to point the moral finger at others. but when it comes to the european union, people prefer to turn a blind eye. everything is permissible, as long as the unprofitable banana industry on islands such as french guiana, the azores and the canary islands is protected. the fact that the european taxpayer is paying for the hundreds of millions of euros in subsidies wasted every year is taken for granted. it is high time that this european mismanagement was abolished and that the european union stopped subsidizing this economic inefficiency.
this parliament is asking what every parliament in the world is asking: democratic control over the formulation and implementation of policy. the european union must be a model, an example, and the treaty of lisbon has been a great step forward for the influence of the european parliament. there is a large majority in this house which does not accept attempts by the council and the commission to reduce parliamentary control in contravention of the spirit of the treaty. this house does not want to micromanage, it simply wants to influence the policy as it is set and implemented. it is therefore a question of the strategic choices, of the content of that policy. in other countries people are taking to the streets to demand that influence, and we must support them in every way possible. but the struggle for democracy is sometimes also a struggle for negotiation and dry notes. the conviction is not changed by it, every power demands maximum democratic control. that is the right of all citizens, in cairo, in tunis and in brussels.
author. − mr president, i know this is the last vote. i am not going to take up much of your time. i am the rapporteur for the committee on petitions for the subject we are about to vote on: finding a breakthrough in the ongoing waste crisis in campania, which is the region surrounding naples in italy. after having received numerous requests from petitioners, the committee on petitions sent a mission to campania and adopted by consensus a report pointing towards a solution. it is self-evident that italy must comply with eu law, just as any other member state. we are about to send a strong message, yet the amendments tabled politicise the issue unnecessarily and, if supported, will water down the strong signal to a weak whisper. if this house does not want to walk on the leash of one member state, i suggest voting against the amendments and supporting the original text.
last september parliament decided not to close the books of the european police college because of serious mismanagement and structural problems. it was expected that the situation would be brought under control only in 2014. in the meantime, i have not had the impression that cepol has improved. so why now the proposal to close the books on 2008? the pvv therefore votes against this proposal and wants to make all unlawful losses bearable on those concerned. we are also calling into question the very existence of cepol. there is already excellent police cooperation in europe, and there is no need for cepol. so as far as we are concerned, it should be abolished as soon as possible. that would cost the taxpayer a lot of money.
in writing. - the vvd in the european parliament voted today against a number of amendments to the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment. we are against measures which require small shops to take in small appliances without restriction, without the consumer having to buy a new similar appliance. the vvd believes that the existing collection potential could and should be better exploited rather than imposing new unworkable and unrealistic obligations.
mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, who has being doing an excellent job for a number of years now. she said that the transposition of the directive has to be correct. i agree, but it also has to be timely. in june 2010, only about half the member states had implemented the directive – more than half a year late. where are we now, commissioner? today, more than a year after the deadline, have all 27 member states implemented the directive? if not, i think that is pathetic. the obstacles to implementation are not of a technical nature; they are a lack of ambition and political will. the services directive was in itself a very meagre compromise and less than the bare minimum needed to bring about a true internal market. now, member states are dragging their feet and implementing only reluctantly and late. that is short-sighted. at times of economic crisis we cannot afford to waste opportunities for growth and job creation because, while the european union is navel-gazing and preoccupied with our internal borders, the rest of the world moves on. it is not waiting for us. if we want to make eu 2020 a reality, the member states will have to step up implementation of the services directive.
i would like to thank commissioner barnier for the courage he has shown in bringing it forward in this way, because during the hearing he promised to tackle the european patent during this mandate, so thank you for that. i also thank mr lehne for his approach. we have only to decide whether we accept closer cooperation. that's the first thing that needs to happen. i regret, however, that a distinction is made between the importance of language as an identity and as a cultural phenomenon and the difference in practice. because in practice the system now being proposed will be used by all member states for 35 years, and i think the way it is being proposed can be much cheaper. i regret that the debate is getting a little muddy in the language war in this one and i hope - and this is also what parliament has expressly asked - that the member states which may not be participating now can join at any time and i think that this will finally be the end of it and we will finally get a european patent.
it is a good thing that we are moving forward with the danube strategy. there are major problems, we know, environmental problems, slope erosion, water quality, and - more importantly - we are not making sufficient use of the potential this area has for citizens and businesses. as a dutch delegate, i know that we have had a similar approach on the rhine. improvements in water quality, transport and tourism functionality and agriculture go hand in hand. nothing, no contradictions, an integrated approach can really help. and then something about the legal basis. the legal basis for enhanced territorial cohesion is laid down in the treaty. this new article offers an opportunity for good cooperation between and across the borders of these 14 member states. the instrument, objective three in cohesion policy, provides an excellent basis. it is a way of involving local authorities, businesses and citizens. the ppe group says 'yes' to this strategy. and then under those three conditions - the commissioner has just said that -: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the use of existing funds and also that of the eib. the macro-regions, which are still in the experimental phase, should not make european governance more complex. no, the basis remains the region, the member state itself, and we are going to make better use of these funds and instruments. i think that such an action programme, which offers advice and action, supported by the european commission, can also be very effective. under these conditions we shall now start with the baltic sea. it's going well, now the danube and soon the atlantic coast. this morning i consulted with schuttevaer, a dutch shipowners' association; they say that 10% of the rhine's traffic now comes from the danube. it can easily be increased if we make better use of the wide waterway between the north sea and the black sea. good for east and west!
my compliments to everyone, but i still wish it had been more ambitious. much more ambitious. why would you do that? i'll give you five points: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect. in europe we are very dependent on imports of raw materials for energy. with cleaner technology, of course, we would have saved a lot more and we could have also given a huge push to our strong automotive industry to come up with clean, smart technology that could also be sold anywhere in the rest of the world and give us a head start. because we are so dependent on imports, it is also cheaper and much more efficient. it also saves money for the consumer. the purchase price may be higher, but in the end it's cheaper per mile. and for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, that would have been very interesting. and for the dutch, "not a penny too much" is still very interesting!
today's debate has also arisen because the russian leaders themselves, president medvedev in particular, have so often stressed the importance of the rule of law for the modernization of russia. but at the same time we find that there are many concrete examples of things which are actually hindering this modernisation. for example, if i look at corruption, which according to sources is only increasing, despite good new corruption legislation, or the yukos case. or the repeated arrests of opposition members and human rights defenders who have won our sakharov prize. the seriousness of the modernisation being undertaken in russia has not yet been fully grasped. and when we are working with russia on the partnership for modernisation, and we are negotiating the eu-russia agreement, i find it incredible that in the progress report on the partnership for modernisation only five sentences are devoted to the modernisation of the rule of law. i think we need to have more expertise in-house as well. what i want to do, and we will do it together in the report that parliament is going to draw up on russia, is to call for the promotion of the rule of law.
for the greens/efa group the question is: and what now, after the court has said here in strasbourg that you cannot send asylum seekers back to greece? the minister of justice in my country, the netherlands, knew. he said: "we are helping the greeks very quickly to strengthen border controls, to get their asylum system back on track, and then we can just start sending dublin claimants back to greece". that's not the answer, of course, in the end. because in this house, parties from left to right have said that there should be a solidarity clause in the dublin system. if that does not happen, the southern countries will always have a harder time than my own country on the north sea, where there are not so many boats with refugees coming in. we also see from the flow of immigrants on lampedusa, commissioner, that you can work very hard to guard your borders, but you have to be prepared for unexpected events. do you agree with the greens that the dublin system is now bankrupt, and when will there be movement to change that dublin system? do you agree with us that the tide may be turning here, that the northern countries are now forced to show solidarity? i would also like to know your opinion on the ruling of the court in strasbourg last week, which says that rule 39 cases, requests for deferment of deportation, have increased by 4000% in the last few years - because people see that dublin is not working. the last thing i want to say is: finally, in the case between m.s.s. and the belgian authorities, it was found that the debt was owed to the belgian authorities in particular. they have to pay the biggest financial claim. they were negligent. when can we expect changes in the dublin system so that these people are no longer subjected to inhuman conditions? the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
mrs sargentini, why do i not hear you say that turkey is behaving badly by allowing all these people to stay in turkey? why do i not hear you say that europe's complex asylum laws are being abused by so many people, by people smugglers and fortune seekers, who are simply abusing our asylum system because it is too complicated. why don't you say so?
thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to answer this question. i think you should start by finding the fault in yourself. europe is making a mockery of its own asylum system. as long as we do that and are not prepared to help greece to really get asylum seekers off their necks and to ensure that we all judge in the same way whether someone is a genuine political refugee or not, we cannot shift the blame onto someone else. i agree with you, mr madlener, that traffickers must be arrested and that turkey should have a decent asylum system, a system which recognises political refugees who are not from the european union but from elsewhere. but i'm looking for the blame and also the solution first in ourselves.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report and for the work he has done in this area. last week, it rightly called on the member states to re-examine the whole asylum package. and it's not really a choice menu. the sudden influx of tunisian refugees is another example of this. italy has the greatest difficulty in ensuring proper reception and asylum procedures. and if other member states simply continue to watch, it is only a matter of time before the european court of justice concludes that the transfer of asylum applications to italy should also be suspended, as the court did with regard to greece. it is therefore in everyone's interest that an emergency procedure be developed in the dublin context, as the commission also proposes, and that binding agreements be reached quickly on humane reception and a high-quality asylum procedure. i would like to hear from the commissioner whether she thinks that concerned meps can help her further to finally get the member states to take the much needed action. at least she can count on my commitment.
mr president, once again the netherlands can clean up the mess of greece! first, the dutch taxpayer has given billions of euros in aid to the almost bankrupt country, and now we are again faced with two thousand asylum seekers from greece whom we cannot send back. mr president, the netherlands does not want these asylum seekers. the netherlands has suffered enough and is still suffering from mass immigration and the failed multicultural illusion. the netherlands wants fewer unfortunate immigrants and europe must adopt a much stricter immigration policy. otherwise europe will eventually become eurabia. but greece is also a victim of its bad neighbour turkey. greece must therefore build a wall to prevent turkish emigrants and the emigrants that turkey is allowing to pass through turkey. and we must of course punish turkey, because they are simply allowing these illegals to cross into greece. and finally, of course, european asylum law needs to be much, much stricter, because let's face it: 99% of asylum seekers are not asylum seekers at all, but economic opportunists who abuse the asylum laws.
we really have an emergency in europe. europe is currently being swamped by a tsunami of muslim immigrants from barbary, north africa. tens of thousands of fortune seekers, including serious criminals and even terrorists, have already arrived in lampedusa and hundreds of thousands are about to do exactly the same. the european frontier is leaking like a basket. italy is failing to protect our external border and frontex is following the facts. i would therefore ask the council and the high representative, mrs ashton, to convene an emergency meeting in accordance with rule 28 (2) in which the council will take strong action to stop this wave of immigration. and i also want to make an appeal to prime minister berlusconi. do not ask us for money to clean up your mess and waste and do not ask us for money to deter your immigrants. but why don't you stop chasing women and get to work sending all those immigrants back to africa?
it is well known that the people who arrive from libya are generally muslims, and that there are many criminals, and even terrorists. i assume that everyone here knows that, and if you don't know that, then you are being completely naive.
it seems a bit ironic: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it seems a little hard to believe that they are leaving that country right now. great changes seem to be taking place all over the middle east, and it may well be that this is the harbinger of things to come. i therefore think it is right that the commission should prepare itself by all possible means and the commission will now also have to prove that it can control the situation. all the community's resources will have to be mobilised, we will have to help tunisia, but it seems to me inevitable that in this particular case, just as freedom is about to be proclaimed in tunisia, there will be a lot of people who will not turn out to be genuine refugees. i think it is therefore inevitable that the commission should insist that a large number of people should be sent back to tunisia, precisely to set an example for the future. because it is possible that more refugees will come from countries of the middle east.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the democratic developments in north africa, but that we should be concerned about the obligations which europe has to assume. and the problems facing north africa cannot be solved in southern europe. i am in solidarity with my italian colleagues in this respect. but the question for the commissioner is: what are the possibilities for shortening the procedures, for assessing people quickly and for sending them back to tunisia immediately if they are not refugees? because we are seeing large groups of young men going to southern italy. and there are probably a lot of economic refugees among them. and we have to separate the real refugees from the economic refugees. there is also, of course, the problem of communication. many europeans think that many tunisians come to southern italy. and that is a communication problem, also for the european union. so the question is: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to begin this debate by thanking the members for the very pleasant and fruitful cooperation. i would also like to thank the advisers of the parliamentary secretariats and our own staff. it was not easy to manage the large number of amendments. i think we have succeeded, because we now have a clear story in response to the green paper. a secure, sustainable and adequate pension is the guarantee that the european citizen wants. this is not easy, pensions are and remain a responsibility of the member states. but that does not mean that we cannot have an opinion or make proposals through the open method of coordination, which could lead to adjustment. the sustainability of pension systems is under pressure. the reverse population pyramid: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. the first pillar's transposition systems are the perfect expression of solidarity between generations. and they will continue to be the most important in the future. but apart from the burden on the younger generation, there is also undoubtedly pressure on the collective budgets, and this in turn has repercussions on the stability pact, whether we like it or not. president. - member states are in the process of raising the retirement age. i reject any proposals to link pensions to increased life expectancy in europe. i do so because life expectancy in the member states is so different and because, if you did, i think it would be unsocial. what we do think is that we should move towards a higher retirement age. but this must be done at the level of the member states and in conjunction with the social partners. there is also another side of the coin - and elisabeth is looking at me - and that is to keep older people working. this means that we must make much greater efforts to develop flexible career and pension schemes and to improve and adapt the conditions for older people to continue working. the member states where the second pillar accounts for a large proportion have made savings. often by employers and employees together, sometimes in a mixed form in the new member states. the funds are in savings funds, pension funds or on the company's balance sheet. the savings and accumulation systems are less under pressure from public finances. but the increased life expectancy is also a problem there. in addition, the financial crisis, the poor performance of bond and equity markets and low interest rates are putting pressure on the guarantees for future pensions. the answer as prepared by the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. good supervision . i know! improved understanding for participants in the systems: i know! but first, a deep impact on the effects of solvency before legislation is introduced. i would also like to refer to the debate on derivatives. derivatives and pension funds can't be left out. derivatives are used for a pension fund to hedge risks. and that's not for speculation. so, commission, think before you start. then the third pillar. i think we should not expect too much of that. individual savings are only available if you have money. but what we do want is to create more awareness, and more awareness you get when people are informed about their retirement, so also a tracking system. the third pillar, mr president, is also missing the european internal market, and something can be done about that. two further comments. the appropriate: we cannot determine this at european level, the member states must do so. the following shall be considered as portability: i believe that an open labour market can only function with more freedom of movement for workers, without prejudice to workers exercising that right. but also there: portability: yes!, but with an adjustment period, i.e. new contracts and after an impact study.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr ria oomen-ruijten, for the good cooperation. i am grateful to her for having taken over much, if not all, of the advice i had written for imco. in particular, i welcome the recommendation to develop a european system in which everyone will be able to know how much pension has been accumulated, regardless of which member state. i have some questions, however, and in particular the difference between what mrs oomen said just now and the recommendation to make pension policy part of a european economic governance. we do not yet know exactly what that architecture will look like, but the chances are very real that it will not be free of obligation. and i do not want to give the impression that, for example, by voting in favour, i have contributed to the transfer of national powers in this area. i am also concerned about the recommendation, which is indeed there, to raise the retirement age in the light of life expectancy. i do not think that is necessary for the netherlands and i cannot therefore endorse that recommendation. i would like to hear the rapporteur's reaction.
- i'm the reporter. - look, i don't want to leave anything in space. so i ask mr mann to indicate where in this report it says that solvency should be applied to second pillar pensions? i'm against it myself, but where does this go?
subsidiarity, a matter for the member states themselves, and solidarity, that is what the rapporteur has said repeatedly about pension policy. i thought she would throw the green paper on austerity straight into the trash. i almost fell off my chair when the rapporteur literally gave the green paper a positive appraisal. the rapporteur, on the one hand, is hammering on subsidiarity, but on the other hand she is making a lot of proposals to increase the eu's influence. the eu must determine what a minimum pension meets. the eu must persuade member states to raise the retirement age. the eu should encourage competition between european pension funds and further privatisation. what is subsidiarity? if all this were to lead to more social pension systems, then eu influence might still be justified. unfortunately, the commission and the rapporteur give priority to the single market and will only increase the gap between rich and poor.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to take this opportunity to mention my colleagues by name: george cutaş, barbara matera and dennis the younger, but i don't know where dennis is. there he is, in the back. he made some remarks which i do not understand, for example when he says that we want to solve everything in a european way. - that's not true. - no. subsidiarity is the principle. mr president, where he has a problem with economic governance, we want everyone who is doing their best to be happy with economic governance. that is what we want, and not that a number of member states - the ten who have written a letter - should be disadvantaged because they are taking good care of the future, of their pensions. i hope that satisfies you. kartika liotard is not here now, but it does strike me that she has apparently not read the report and yet she is making statements as she has. i have already thanked mr cutaş, mr matera and mr de jong, but i would also like to thank frédéric daerden, marianne harkin, julie girling, jean lambert, danuta, our own shadow epp members, for making this report what it is. i think we have given a good analysis of what needs to be done. i also know that there will certainly be sensitive issues relating to member states. i hope, however, that we will be able to help the commission, you, mr commissioner, mr andor, to get things going and that we will be able to draw the same line in this parliament on the white paper and that everyone will vote in favour. it was a difficult case, but i hope that tomorrow we can say: all's well that ends well.
i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and for the good cooperation. i believe that this is a very important regulation for the health of the consumer, even if he may not yet have known that his health was in danger. fortunately, at least we have now managed to avoid any risk. because health is not to be played with. i do believe that this is an important step forward in terms of packaging safety and clarity. i am also very pleased that, at the insistence of parliament, the internet sales directive has been included, because it was a thorn in everyone's side. because when it comes to playing with the health of consumers, selling online is russian roulette. because there's a 50-90% chance, bingo, that you're going to run into a fake drug. i'm very happy that this arrangement is going in. i think that some adjustments are necessary, because safety is not fully guaranteed there. after all, every country has its own rules. and then there's that logo, or it's totally tamper-proof on the internet, and we really have to look at that. transparency and reliability for consumers; i hope that the consumer can play without risking his health.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i had a very interesting day today when it comes to albania. i have spoken to the representatives of the two main political parties there. i asked both of them to share ideas on how to move the country forward and how to break the political stalemate to focus on problems affecting all citizens: fighting organised crime, ending corruption, creating employment and opportunities for the young generation. none of them was able to come up with an answer. the blame game seemed more important. it occurs to me that the political establishment in albania is more concerned with itself than with its people. i do not have to tell you have difficult it is for us to convince our constituents to join us when we are making the case for eu enlargement. despite resistance, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe would like to see the western balkans become part of the territory of the european union. we believe that the eu is a community of values which has left behind a divided past, choosing a united future. we must call on the albanian authorities to do the same and not be suffocated by the shadows of the past, but to step into the light of the future. and let them not forget that it is their responsibility first and foremost to provide for the well-being of citizens and not to deny them a european future, because it is crystal clear that the political crisis hampers any and all progress. new elections will take place in may and the preparations are under way. they should be supported by all political parties. i welcome the suggestion that the eu should play an active role in ensuring that they are both free and fair. but democracy is a long process and it is certainly more than just ‘one man, one vote’. it requires democratic institutions, the rule of law and its strength is determined by respect for minorities. democracy is not ‘winner takes all’. eu accession is a long journey which requires hard work and shared commitment, and the reforms albania has made are best served by collaboration and continuing commitment to the eu process.
for the greens/efa group the crisis in albania is not new. the crisis did not start in january with the violence against protesters, nor did the crisis start in 2009, when the socialist party boycotted parliament after elections and began the hunger strike. the crisis is a crisis of political culture. a boycott, a hunger strike, demonstrations, these are normal tools in albanian politics. corruption, media influence and political appointments are also. and all this is very far from the policy we would wish for a country on the way to accession. i would like to wish the people of albania a responsible government and a responsible parliament, with politicians who put the welfare of their citizens above their own honour and interests. both sides need to move to get it done. the government has a special responsibility. a government has a monopoly on violence, and a government has an extra responsibility to stand above parties, to do what's right for the people. it is to be expected that this government will do everything in its power to prevent a repeat of what happened in january. that she cooperates fully with an independent inquiry into what happened in january. that it also tackles corruption within its own ranks and that it provides scope for parliamentary debate. the opposition has a responsibility too. it must also do everything possible to prevent a repetition of the violence in january by cooperating fully with the good and fair elections in may, by participating in a parliamentary debate, preferably also once on the substance, such as the high unemployment in albania. but how do you get both sides to go that far? i had all the hope when commissioner füle put the ball in albania's court in november and said: no more steps until you're out. and then the candidate status can be granted. but unfortunately, that didn't change anything. i now hope that mr lajcak will succeed where others have failed to get both parties around the table and make a breakthrough. i do have hope, but not so much faith that i can do this without a stick behind the door. as far as i am concerned, we are considering a sanction. it must be clear that the failure of this attempt at negotiation cannot be without consequences. and sanctions should be directed at political leaders, not at citizens. so we should not be turning our backs on visa-free travel, as i have heard in the corridors. we would really hurt the civilians. i would very much like the commissioner to give me an assurance that visa liberalisation will not be abused in this political process. what we could do, for example, is to think about taking away albania's control of ipa funds and putting it back into eu hands. all the major investments in the country can then continue, but the government is more or less put under the control. that seems to me to be a sanction that does not affect the citizens, but the politicians. and i hope above all that all this is completely unnecessary, because both sides are willing to compromise and mr lajcak will succeed well in the interests of the albanian people.
as a journalist, i visited albania several times in the 1990s. each time, i was impressed by the talented young people. a country with such youth must have a future. and last summer i was encouraged again by the european perspective of albania at a summer school in southern vlore. this morning i emailed two albanian academics about this debate tonight. both thirty, perennial: they can earn a lot more outside the country, but they stay. serving my people and my church. but what about the political impasse in their homeland? their message is clear, it's a cry for help: "europe, do not leave our political leaders to their own devices. because if they do, they're destroying the future of our nation. europe, force both parties, socialists and democrats, to negotiate, to find a solution". i am quite frank with you, commissioner. that's easier said than done. but it was a cry for help. i am confident, however, that you will do your utmost to fulfil the hopes of many well-wishers in europe, in your capacity as commissioner responsible. and i wish you a lot of strength and success in that, too. finally, another point, no less important, on albania. a spokesman in tirana warned me of the danger that a large group of albanian girls, or women, would travel to western europe this spring to be trafficked into illegal prostitution rings. do you share this fear, commissioner, and what means does the european union have to prevent trafficking in women and lovers in albania?
croatia has made good progress towards eu membership. that is beyond question, and i am glad of it. however, two things still concern me very much. corruption is still widespread in this balkan country, see also, for example, paragraphs 7 and 8 of this resolution. and that has a huge impact on the economy and on trade relations with this country. there is an urgent need for a better approach to this problem, possibly in cooperation with the european institutions. a second concern is the poor administrative organisation in the country, see paragraph 28 of the resolution. however, good administrative organisation is needed to ensure that eu legislation is properly implemented and that the facts are not left behind. as long as these two bottlenecks are not resolved, i am concerned about the rapid pace at which the hungarian presidency is seeking to bring about the accession of croatia. past experience should, in my view, lead us to believe that the objective is not accession itself but the quality of accession. we shall also gain support among the population, among my fellow citizens in the netherlands.
i am glad that croatia is moving closer and closer to accession. the greens are strongly in favour of accession for all the balkan countries and turkey. but we are such strong supporters precisely because we consider the reforms required by accession to be so important. and croatia is not done with these reforms. the trial must continue. we shall therefore try to ensure that no date is mentioned in the report when we vote. perhaps the negotiations can be completed in the first half of this year, but perhaps not. it's not about when the negotiations are over. the point is that croatia meets all the criteria by then. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. i am not going to give a date, but i want to make it clear what has to be done. and one other thing: one of the things that croatia could do something about is the protection of sexual minorities. it would be nice if our current eu president would set the example with a successful gay pride parade in budapest on june 18, 2011.
the financial and economic crisis has made it painfully clear that our competitiveness and thus the sustainability of our social market economy is at stake. that is why we must now learn from the crisis, to make better use of our internal market, to strengthen the sustainability of our pensions and to make the labour market work better too. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. we all want a europe of sustainable economic growth, with healthy businesses and enough jobs for our citizens. we can only achieve this with a stable currency and a stable economy. for both, the member states must keep their accounts in order, because that will not only prevent problems such as we are seeing in member states with skyrocketing deficits and debts, but also lay the foundations for growth and jobs for our citizens, our children and future generations. the epp group will continue to support a strong european economic governance package with three pillars: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the stability and growth pact, including the implementation of the stability and growth pact, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the stability and growth pact. but that requires the community method, involving the european parliament and national parliaments. if we are going to do that, we do not need a new competition pact, because we already have one.
in writing. − the affordability of pension systems is a problem that has been a hot potato for too long in europe. the percentage of pensioners is rising. in order to keep pensions affordable, member states have no choice but to reform their pension systems. this is directly linked to the sustainability of public finances and the rules for a healthy euro area, the stability and growth pact. i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, in pointing out the importance of pension accumulation through the employer (the so-called second pillar) and individual pension accumulation (the third pillar). unfortunately, we cannot assume that a state pension (the first pillar) will correspond to the level at which workers have arranged their lives. the subsidiarity aspect needs further elaboration. at the euro area level, agreements are needed to ensure that member states reform their pension systems to ensure sustainable public finances. the choices made in this area should, in my view, remain a matter for the member states themselves. this is the case in social and labour market policy, for example in relation to the participation of women in the labour market. where people voluntarily opt for parttime work in order to better combine work, family and care duties, this should not be discouraged by europe.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the oomen-ruijten report on pensions. as rapporteur for the imco opinion on this report, i have been able to work constructively with the rapporteur. the imco opinion was largely taken over by mrs oomen-ruijten. i believe that the report is balanced and balanced, with the core principle of subsidiarity for the member states on the subject of pensions, which provides sufficient protection for the dutch pillar system. what i cannot support at all, however, are those parts of the report which give the impression of calling for binding european agreements on the pension systems of the member states. this is contrary to the sp's thinking.
in writing. - the vvd delegation in the european parliament voted today against the own-initiative report on the green paper on european pensions because of several ambiguities and inaccuracies in the report. we support a number of improvements, such as encouraging a good pension mix between state and company pensions in the member states and a european tracking system for more labour mobility, so that every citizen knows what to expect in retirement and can make his own choices. however, rising unemployment, financial market problems, higher national debts and slow economic growth may lead to difficulties in the payment of pension obligations by member states, with implications for the growth and stability pact and thus for the stability of the euro. in addition, the increasing ageing population has a major impact in many member states because savings have not been made as in the netherlands. therefore, there is a need for harmonised supervision of pension systems and some member states should reorganise their pension systems. we do not want the dutch pension system to be affected in any way. to be sure, we voted for some good points in the report but we are against the report as a whole. the vvd-euro group: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the
in writing. - europe and pensions, a sensitive subject. several member states are devising mechanisms to reduce their national debt by including pension funds in the debt burden. mrs merkel and mr sarkozy have already mentioned the centralisation of pensions in their plans for a centrally governed europe. i am against the idea of a european pension system. the pension systems in the member states are too different. they're hardly comparable. the pension systems in the member states also vary widely in terms of size, reliability and supervision. i do not want the robust dutch pension system to bleed for the mess that has been made of it elsewhere. what i do think is that it is wise for member states to share information about their pension systems and to make efforts to solve specific bottlenecks. i am referring, for example, to university researchers who move to other member states where they are then taxed by the tax authorities on a pension earned elsewhere. that kind of excrement should be removed immediately. but we do not have to change the whole system to european standards.
in writing. − candidate country croatia wants to conclude its accession negotiations with the european union in june 2011. i am satisfied with the progress of the negotiations, but i want to see action first. i do not want us to regret croatian accession in the future: the accession of bulgaria and romania is a hard lesson. on paper, the fight against corruption is clearly one of the priorities of the zagreb government. but you see, very few corruption cases actually go to trial. the vast majority of cases remain in the investigative stage. this is particularly the case with senior officials. i want to see action from zagreb. the country will receive some eur 4 billion upon accession. the croatian politicians who are going to spend it must be trustworthy. we must learn from the experience of bulgaria and romania. these countries have joined far too quickly and corruption has led to all sorts of wrong pockets being filled with european money. so, as long as the fight against corruption remains at the current level, we cannot complete the negotiation process with croatia, it's as simple as that.
a severe lack of political freedom, combined with a dire socioeconomic situation, led to weeks of mass demonstrations and the eventual resignation of president mubarak. and on the streets of cairo, it is said that only one egyptian citizen has adhered to the curfew: i'm not going to say anything. but merely by striking quins you will not improve the average standard of living of the egyptian population. that is certainly a primary task of mubarak's successors, at the risk of another protest explosion. at the same time, there is an internal process of democratization. the peaceful conduct of the talks is of great importance for egyptian civil society itself, but also for the region. i welcome all the assistance that the european union can offer in this dual transition process in egypt, also in view of the vulnerable position of the copts and the continuity of egyptian-israeli relations.
now that the dust has settled in egypt, it is time to open our eyes to what is really happening in north africa. many of the protesters are not looking for democracy at all, but want sharia. allah akbar was a commonly heard slogan. journalists have been harassed, a dutch correspondent has been threatened with death and, to make matters worse, the beautiful american journalist lara logan has been sexually assaulted by a mob. the ayatollahs behind dictator ahmadinejad and al qaeda are celebrating. the muslim brotherhood can continue their holy war against israel and the west. i call on my colleagues not to be naive today. the egyptians are faced with an important choice. will the muslim brotherhood come to power, or will egypt have a secular government? under sharia law, coptic christians, apostate muslims, women and homosexuals will have no future in egypt. if the islamists of the muslim brotherhood get the upper hand, israel will again be the target of violence. the only correct position we have to take today is: egyptians, choose freedom and against sharia! islam and democracy don't mix. the new egyptian constitution must not become sharia. the imams cannot control politics. the dutch party for freedom has the courage to say this out loud. does this parliament and does the european commission dare to do so today? that is the question we must answer today.
i am describing here a real danger that egypt is facing, namely falling prey to the muslim brotherhood. and i call on us to face that danger, and the commission to face it, and to send an important signal to the egyptians now that if they choose the muslim brotherhood and sharia, they can forget our support. i think that is a very important signal today and i hope you will support me in that.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. mrs kroes, the directive on audiovisual media services refers to an independent regulatory body. the new hungarian media authority and the media council, which can impose heavy sanctions on vague grounds, are unilaterally occupied by supporters of the ruling party. and that in an already highly polarized political climate. why has the commission not objected to this lack of independence? why have you not fully examined the powers of the authority and the council, which i believe are within the scope of european law, in the light of the charter of fundamental rights? you, mrs kroes, have now got the hungarian government to make four amendments. for the foreign press, for the audiovisual media, but not for the newspapers. and you will see orban and his people triumphantly waving the stamp of approval, with your flag from brussels. and that they will then go on unmolested preaching intolerance, slandering philosophers, banning a gay pride parade. and all this while that country is the president of the council! you must be very unhappy about that. and then there are the colleagues from the ppe group, who in their resolution said that there was nothing wrong, who accuse the critics of the media law of manipulative and politically motivated comments. that is a serious reproach, also to the osce and to the council of europe's human rights committee. it is quite a reproach, when we know that even mr orban has now realised that his media law needs to be changed. it reminds me of stalinist times, when one person was removed from a photograph. you should join us and the osce in defending european values and not become a power machine. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
mr president, i do not think that the independent media creates violence and i do not see the relevance of this question, but i thank the asker of the question for her question.
mr president, tomorrow we will vote on the free trade agreement with south korea. i have to say, it looks good on the surface. the pvv is a strong supporter of free trade. unfortunately, the european union cannot help adding a safeguard clause to the trade agreement. this is to protect non-competitive companies if they cannot compete with korean products. in other words, if the european consumer prefers to buy korean products to european ones because they are sometimes better or cheaper, then trade barriers are being raised again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr president, free trade without any disadvantage to european industry is of course an illusion. the idea of replacing this by a safeguard clause and compensation for the disadvantaged industries is a sham solution. this allows industries with poor competition to continue their activities rather than adapt to competition. worse, who pays the bill here in the end? right, that's the burger, unfortunately. as consumers they pay too much for their purchases and on top of that as taxpayers they have to collect the necessary compensation. how can i explain to my voters that they will be in favour of it if it turns out that fiat, for example, is losing market share to kia? mr president, these arrangements have no place in a free trade agreement. in practice, it means nothing more than subsidizing inefficient companies at the expense of the european citizen. free trade, excellent, but let us please drop this safeguard clause and compensation scheme.
this trade agreement with south korea is ambitious and comprehensive. major barriers to trade will be removed, which will benefit european companies. the increased access to the south korean market will improve the market position of european companies. this is very important, given that other major players such as the united states, chile and the efta countries are also pursuing or have already concluded a trade agreement with south korea. the european union is demonstrating through this agreement that it is not closed off from open and sustainable trade, despite the protectionist tendencies of others. trade is a way out of the economic crisis. but free trade must not lead to free exploitation. the steel and automotive sectors are not worried for nothing. the implementation of the agreement therefore requires close monitoring of compliance with all conditions and the swift and effective use of bilateral safeguard clauses.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - the rapid economic growth in developing countries is passing by large groups of people. even in african countries, economies sometimes grow at double digits, and you can see that in big cities like addis ababa, but inequality is growing just as fast. women and farmers in particular are not given sufficient opportunities to build their own livelihoods. one of the major barriers is access to financial services. private banks simply have more faith in fast-money traders than in women and farmers. here a public bank has an irreplaceable role. the european investment bank is therefore taking an essential step with this legislative resolution. the bank is no longer primarily for dams and roads, for the major infrastructure projects of european companies. this branch of the bank's activities must continue, but of course with procedures in which all local stakeholders are heard, according to clear criteria of sustainability and social justice. tax havens should not have a chance in these projects. the eib is also now opening up its lending to citizens with small businesses in developing countries. this can be done through local banks, through microfinance institutions, although this requires an additional amendment, and through cooperation with the development banks of the member states. the eib will need to be given the space to further develop the necessary expertise in-house with sufficient staff. but with this new dimension of its activities, the eib is an indispensable instrument for the european union's development policy, with a clear commitment to equal opportunities in developing countries, in sustainable economic growth. i thank the eib, i thank mr kalfin and all the rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation.
the eib supports the european union's external policy, particularly its development policy. that is what mr kalfin, a socialist, said in his report. but the pvv does not want any foreign policy from the eu and certainly not a bank in the role of politician. the eib is operating outside the eu, i don't know why, but the eib budget is guaranteed by the eu budget and paid for by the taxpayer. there are some really beautiful countries that are receiving this eib money, such as the palestinian territories, gaza, libya, cuba, venezuela, turkmenistan and the maldives. all of them countries which are not particularly democratic. and now the commission wants to increase the financial ceilings of the eib. we're also going to invest in climate change in these countries, of course. can you see it? in gaza, in cuba? it's material for a new mr. bean movie, but unfortunately it's happening for real! the pvv is firmly opposed to this proposal and will therefore vote against it wholeheartedly. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
while the earl of dartmore does not understand the difference between loans and grants, while mrs andreasen has only to read the eib's annual report once more, mr hartong does not understand that europe is not an island in the world, and that if we want peace and stability, also in our continent, we must invest in other countries. this is not only the case with subsidies, but also, and much better, with loans. i am curious to see if you would be in favour of that, mr hartong.
i am sure mr berman will know that politics is about political choices, and we choose to invest our taxpayers' money in a much wiser way in a foreign policy of the member states than in a foreign policy of the european union.
if the signs are not mistaken, the role of the european investment bank is becoming increasingly important. the most important thing for me is that the triple a rating of this bank will never be jeopardized by new tasks that it should be given. if we look at the discussions on the financial perspective, it seems that the amount of money that the member states will make available will not be much higher than it is at present. i think we must therefore look particularly at how we can use the european investment bank to achieve certain objectives of europe. we have done that in the past, and what i always find particularly important is: what has been the multiplier effect of the guarantees we have given to that european investment bank? i therefore think it would be useful for the bank to come up with a report to indicate which guarantees have been the most successful and to which multiplication factors are most applicable. we are also in a better position to choose which funds we will use as guarantees for the european investment bank when preparing the financial perspective.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in the run-up to this, i had good informal talks with the commission representatives. it is strange, however, that the european parliament has never been formally involved in this. transparency is a common concern for both the commission and the european parliament. can the commissioner assure me that in future there will be a formal dialogue on these kinds of issues before final decisions are taken? in the last few weeks i have been in contact with all sorts of civil society organisations. unfortunately, they are far from convinced that the composition of expert groups will be less uneven in the future. that actually starts with the information on the setting up of new groups of experts. i know from my own experience, from my own time in the commission's general secretariat, that the dgs are kingdoms. but if there is political will, it should be possible for the commission to decide to put all the information on the new expert groups and also on the notification procedure on one website. will the commissioner still take care of this, or will he bow to the bureaucratic bureaucracy within the commission? all civil society organisations are faced with a huge lack of resources. this applies to trade unions, consumer organizations and representatives of small and mediumsized enterprises. they all have to do it from a small office in brussels, unlike large companies that have the means to hire professional lobbyists. this means that, in the interests of workers, consumers and smes, it is important that people from outside brussels should be able to take part in expert groups. but there is a price. the commission's website should clearly indicate that travel and subsistence expenses are reimbursed, and that there is also a reimbursement scheme for other costs directly related to the work of expert groups. ngos are often unaware of this and not all commission officials voluntarily bring it to their attention. for example, it is impossible for a small selfemployed person to leave his or her business for a moment without compensation to take part in a group of experts in brussels. such reimbursement is therefore essential. dg sanco considers that experts appointed in a personal capacity should not have links with organisations that have a direct interest in the subject of the expert group. i would ask the commissioner to make the policy of dg sanco mandatory for all dgs. finally, i would like to hear from the commissioner how it is that the commission's website mentions greenpeace as a participant in the implementing geological disposal of waste - technology platform, when i have in my possession the correspondence between greenpeace and the commission which shows that greenpeace's application for participation has been explicitly rejected by the commission.
author. − mr president, since the beginning of this month there have been fights between the armed forces along the thai-cambodian border, near the temple of preah vihear, which is listed by unesco as a world heritage site. we have a responsibility to protect the lives of people first and foremost, but we also have a responsibility for cultural heritage. particularly worrying is the reported use of cluster munitions. those reports may well be true, as neither thailand nor cambodia has ratified the convention on cluster munitions. to prevent further escalation, which would put the region at risk of destabilisation, both governments have to assume their responsibilities and also have to care for people displaced as a result of this conflict. we welcome the efforts by the asean chair to facilitate a dialogue between the two countries so that the dispute can be resolved in a peaceful manner. thailand and cambodia have agreed to join an urgent meeting of south-east asian nations to discuss the conflict. the director-general of unesco will also send a special envoy to bangkok and phnom penh to urge both sides to cooperate with a possible unesco mission.
author. − mr president, i look with great admiration at the courage of citizens who defy the repression and violence of their governments. we have seen this happening in popular uprisings in tunisia, egypt, iran, algeria, bahrain and also in yemen. the young generation wants hope to replace cynicism, opportunities to replace poverty, justice to replace impunity and internet freedom to replace repression and censorship. we have a long list of serious concerns about developments in yemen in relation to democracy, human rights and the independence of the judiciary, as well as to the persecution of journalists, bloggers and human rights defenders. in particular, we are concerned about the climate of fear that is created by the execution of juveniles, despite yemen’s commitment to the international community not to execute juvenile offenders and the reflection of that commitment in its own penal code. there is a lack of adequate means to determine the age of defendants, so it is difficult for people to defend themselves. we call on the president of yemen and the authorities to at least respect yemen’s own laws and commitments to the international community and halt the execution of juveniles. we also stress the need for reforms in yemen, as called for by so many demonstrators in the streets, and we want their living conditions and their rights to be improved.
author. − mr president, today we have an urgent resolution on lgbt rights in uganda for the third time in this parliamentary term. the previous two were warnings and attempts to prevent what happened to david kato, the human rights activist who was brutally murdered. we must condemn lgbt discrimination across the world, including in europe and even in this house. the murder of david kato is a crime that needs to be fully and impartially investigated. not only do the perpetrators have to be brought to justice, but the broader context of intolerance, discrimination and threats to lgbt people needs to be analysed, and changed. local publication rolling stone and ugandan parliamentarians have played a role of incitement rather than one of protecting citizens. since david kato’s murder, the authorities have been too silent. the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has put the rights of lbgt people on the agenda over and over again and, with the support of all members of this house, we have urged respect for their human rights – because that is what lgbt rights are – and we will not be silent. i hope that those members who are sometimes hesitant or even reluctant to stand up for gay rights will think again and realise that killing people is never justified and that it needs to be met with our ongoing and unequivocal condemnation, just as we address the violations of the rights of other minorities across the world, such as christians. the commission and the external action service need to use the toolkit to promote, and protect the enjoyment of, the rights of lgbt people to the full extent with regard to uganda.
i would like to thank mr cadec for his initiative, because this is the right moment. commissioner, thank you for your initiatives on the maritime strategy. if i'm looking at the play, we're mostly picking out the things we can do better together. i understand very clearly that we are not seeking to build new structures. the coastal regions and all those involved in the member states and between the member states should take up this policy and prevent a new level from being created somewhere between the european commission, the european union and the member states. that is an important preliminary point. but let us look at the issues that come together in maritime policy - i am thinking here of transport, all the new methods involved, the environment, the economy, you spoke of sustainable development, of eu-2020, the energy challenge and of course the revision of our fisheries positions. all of these things together underline the need to support the atlantic coast in its opportunities and possibilities. can i add something? i am a member of this parliament from the netherlands. now we have the baltic sea, the atlantic arc, the danube and the mediterranean. what else is missing? the strip of norway, the netherlands, a piece of germany, denmark, in short the north sea. my question to the commissioner is this: if you want to work geographically with macro-regions, isn't the next step that you take that and pick it up? and one last sentence to finish. the north sea cpmr committee is meeting at the end of this week. she will be making this proposal in middelburg.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it invites us to celebrate what we have achieved, such as women's suffrage, equal treatment and reproductive rights, at least in the more civilized countries. this day also invites mourning for what is still wrong. in the eu, women are still severely underrepresented in decisionmaking, care is almost exclusively for women, and there is still a persistent income gap between men and women, even outside the eu where some countries have not even started to give women the right to vote. the 100th women's day also invites a historical comparison. the first really big step for women in the labour market was taken during the world wars, especially the second. there were simply not enough men to do the work in factories and offices. employers had no choice, and women entered the labour market in large numbers. we're in that period again. this time, fortunately, not with war, but with aging. in five to ten years there will simply be too few men to fill vacancies at all levels. employers must attract and retain women. ageing is a great opportunity for gender equality. and it is up to us as european politicians and our colleagues in the national parliaments to encourage this development with good maternity leave for mothers and fathers, with adequate affordable childcare, with the right to flexible hours and parttime work with good social rights, and with quotas for business closures and politics or the credible threat thereof. together we can ensure that it will not take another hundred years before men and women have equal rights and equal opportunities in all areas.
in writing. - i cannot support the podimata report. the member states are responsible for tax policy. the report does not make this situation right, but seeks to impose a number of taxes from the eu, including a financial transaction tax and an energy tax. if a tax on the financial sector is necessary, the proceeds should go to the treasury of the member states. after all, they had to bail out the banks. member states are wise to use this revenue to reduce the public debt incurred during the crisis. the report, on the other hand, explicitly assumes that the proceeds can benefit global and eu policy objectives. that would be climate change and development cooperation. the report also calls for a solidarity levy on airline tickets to combat public health problems and charges for the transport sector. i understand that there are useful policy objectives to be pursued and that more revenue is considered desirable for this purpose. however, since it concerns tax measures, this must be initiated from the member states and not dictated top-down from europe. i am afraid that such a move would be an obstacle to fruitful cooperation with the council.
the council, mr president, wants more ambition to strengthen competitiveness and increase convergence. of course, we can only applaud that. i would like to join in the tribute to president barroso for the way he has taken up the glove and come here to explain the competition pact, a way that even martin schulz today takes lightly. that's a good point. you arrested him with president van rompuy. but it is getting a little complicated, because there is also a whole package of legislation lying in wait for parliament. we are co-legislators for the first time in economic governance. that is why it is so important to link things well, because there is overlap. in this parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled 2,000 amendments and if we look at them, we find almost all the subjects covered by the competition pact in those amendments. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. how will we link the competition pact with the legislative package and the eu 2020 strategy? and, mr barroso, will you actively use your right of initiative to also establish the link between the competition pact and the legislative package? if you do not do that, then this parliament will take up the glove itself in its role as co-legislator.
president. - mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this debate and the report on turkey comes three months before the turkish parliamentary elections. i have therefore, more than in other years, done my utmost to ensure that the tone is very objective and constructive. the 22 compromise amendments for the vote in the committee on foreign affairs are proof of this. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services. that's six, in my opinion. first of all: the government and the opposition have a heavy responsibility to seek compromise and consensus for further reforms. the opposition and the government have both indicated that they want to see a complete reform of the constitution and i expect that to happen. secondly: the checks and balances are the basis of any democratic system. further steps should be taken to strengthen the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and to strengthen the control role of parliament and in particular the freedom of the press and freedom of expression. i am particularly concerned about freedom of the press, but i will come back to that. thirdly: the rights of minorities. i congratulate turkey on the symbolic steps it has taken and on the dialogue which the government has also insistently sought. but dialogue alone is not enough. the population in the south-east of the country, the alevis, the christian minorities, they expect something concrete. the mor gabriel ruling also proves once again that there is still a lot of work to be done and it should hurt the government if that case has to be decided again before the european court. that is why something must be done about the democratic opening up. fourthly: the rights of women. a great deal has been done in the past year, but laws alone are not enough. i've been to a few shelters. i spoke to turkish women's organizations. it is clear that efforts have been made by both the government and parliament, at national and local levels, but the police and the judiciary are often left behind. that's got to change. laws are good, but enforcement is important, too. i am therefore pleased to be able to make another appeal on international women's day for a better representation of women in parliament. that will have to change in the next election. fifth: the ankara protocol is crucial in my view. turkey is responsible for this. the blockade of negotiating chapters is particularly there, let me say it again. sixth , foreign policy. we europeans are in favour of turkey playing an active role in the region. but at the same time i say that turkey can only fulfil a bridge function if the pillar of that bridge also remains firmly anchored on the european side of the bosphorus. mrs ashton will also have to be very active and even more active in seeking coordination with turkey on this point. these are not just my priorities, by the way. all of the things i'm mentioning have been discussed in turkish society. it is up to the political community to turn this debate into consensus and compromise. in short, two other concerns. the announcement by the pkk of the termination of the ceasefire is a matter of concern to us. the commissioner has spoken about it. freedom of the press: last friday, i got an open letter. and let me say again that anyone who restricts freedom of expression also harms the culture of a country. it is crucial for a country to be able to discuss this issue freely and tolerantly.
president, we are talking about turkey, but prime minister erdoğan would prefer a turkish-arab union. turkey is a great friend of dictator ahmadinejad. turkey no longer wants to be a secular country. turkey occupies northern cyprus and turkey is no longer the friend of israel, but chooses the muslim brothers of hamas. turkey is increasingly turning its attention to the muslim world. colleagues, when will we stop this charade? europe does not want turkey and europe does not want islam. sarkozy has already said it. merkel has already said it and the majority of european citizens do not want turkey to be a member of the european union either. turkey has been humiliated for years in exchange for money from the european union and the promise of european membership. but the backward culture of islam is not suited to europe. and prime minister erdoğan: are you a real man or a submissive coward? how long will you allow the turkish people to be humiliated? you can keep the honor for yourself and quit.
mr president, turkish accession to europe would be one of the greatest historical mistakes ever made. we have a country of 80 million people, and that country will have a claim on the european budget, on european decision-making and on foreign policy. and what that course is now, we can see from turkey's relations with hamas, hezbollah and iran. it would also fail in the field of integration. we're already seeing that. prime minister erdoğan recently called on turkish migrants in germany to learn turkish first and foremost. it seems logical to me that when you live in that country, you first learn german. the agenda of erdoğan is that of an islamic party and the balance would shift on that point too if they joined. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. therefore, let the 2010 progress report be the last report. stop these pointless negotiations! a privileged partnership that combines the best of both worlds.
mr president, progress and mutual trust are the result of the fulfilment of the commitments agreed by both turkey and the european union. the opening of new chapters is precisely what will give a new impetus to the progress we want in human rights and justice. freedom of the press is a big concern. the protection of this freedom, which is in serious trouble, is a great asset. in a democracy, the press has an important role in controlling power. of course, there is a great responsibility on turkey's part to implement eu legislation, but also on europe's part, such as respecting the agreements in the association agreement on the free movement of persons and the council conclusions of april 2004 on cyprus. finally, on this 100th international women's day, i would like to focus on the rights of women in turkey. the commission has already made a number of improvements in the legal framework, but i call on the turkish government to do everything possible to ensure that it is also implemented properly and, with a view to the forthcoming elections, to respond to the ep's call for quotas to increase the number of women in representative posts.
madam president, first of all i would like to say once again that i – and we – drafted the report quite carefully. the point of order i would like to make is the following: i want to ask colleagues not to come up with new amendments because, if we want to have an un-polarised debate on this, if we want a big commitment by the whole plenary ... (the president cut off the speaker)
president, commissioner, mrs járóka, i very much appreciate your report. you have worked very hard on it and have also taken us on a number of visits to your own territory in hungary, where you are from. the committee on regional policy also visited romania later to see how it was done. you'll really see how it goes. you get a warm welcome and people make music, but at the same time, there's the other side: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. that is why, as rapporteur, i dealt with this change in the regional fund at the beginning of last year. it is now possible to spend 4% of regional funds on housing for vulnerable groups, in this case the roma. we must then establish that spending is lagging behind and that the programmes do not primarily benefit the housing of the roma. that's really crazy. europe offers the possibilities, and on the other hand, they are not being used. the same applies to the social fund. we should definitely have that debate together. at the forthcoming meeting of the committee on regional policy, minister udrea of romania will be joining us to discuss this matter. the framework that the commission will provide provides the opportunity to steer more when countries fail to support regions and municipalities. i do have very high expectations of that. sometimes, you have to force it, because the usual arguments don't work. your pilot projects could be a very good idea.
president. - i should like to thank mr bernd lange for his excellent report and for the excellent cooperation. the industrial policy has returned from the past, and not only back but also not alien. together with two other flagships, two other strategies, this strategy is at the heart of the european agenda for jobs and a healthy economy. and most importantly, not just now, but in the future, a viable future. industrial policy must be integrated with all other strategies on the innovation union, raw materials and the efficient use of natural resources. these three form the core. it should be a holistic approach, with intensive cooperation between different policy areas. are they really two different policy areas? and where industry - as you, commissioner, have already said - is not the enemy but the supporter of sustainability. industrial policy cannot be pursued without an integrated market. the internal market is still in the making and needs to be completed. the whole industry, but especially small innovative companies, will benefit from this. producers can be creative, but they must also be responsible, and that means ultimate product responsibility. the aim is to encourage cleaner production and more sustainable products, because i believe that is ultimately the future of europe. and that's what we're going to do with this cradle-to-cradle industry. and with that, we create a smart resource management and a healthy economy. industrial policy has been neglected for too long and left to the market. it's time we set an example for others and for ourselves again.
the manufacturing industry, mr president, commissioner, will remain important, also in the knowledge economy of today and tomorrow. it remains essential to maintain high quality production in europe and at the same time it is the cork on which the knowledge and skills of many in our countries float and our competitiveness is developed. this report rightly places industry high on the european agenda and this is important for large-scale industry as well as for small and mediumsized enterprises. we in europe have the best knowledge in many fields. i am thinking of the energy sector, the aerospace industry or the automotive industry, which is turning like a whistle at the moment. i am thinking of the supply of the automobile industry, which is essential for europe. and how clever and clean the eu 2020 strategy is! but i have one more point: the second is globalisation. we have a globalisation adjustment fund and we will soon have the european patent. nevertheless, commissioner tajani has put equal competition in the world on the agenda. it is all right for chinese companies to invest in europe, but we must have the same opportunities there. and if it is true that large amounts of public money are being invested here, then something is wrong. it is not a matter of returning to protectionism - mr audy has just said this - but of the necessary transparency in essential sectors such as ict and other important european sectors. no european veto, that is the shareholders, that is the supervisors, but it is very important to look at this as europe. it is not wrong to start a debate on this subject in the light of mr lange's excellent report. it's being prosecuted. commissioner tajani, i would like to invite you to do so.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can go and get the raw materials, but we would rather keep them. maybe we can even start making them. i welcome your initiative for a new partnership, including a replacement, but i do think that other colleagues have said this and are right: we have to try to keep them, keep them in europe. that's very important. we need to increase the collection. we need to shift to other business models to simply get as much of the rare earth metals back for recycling as possible. we can do that through innovation, and that requires more efficiency. but what i think is very important: are you also going to pay attention to the fact that these rare earth metals are going to the most useful use when they become even more rare? do you notice that at even higher rarity, eventually those applications end up being left behind that we all need the most, that are the most urgent, for example, that it doesn't end up in a toy from some mcdonalds, but rather in a windmill? will you pay attention to that? because that seems very, very important to me.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in libya, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. meanwhile, murder is the order of the day in the capital tripoli, and countless civilians are disappearing without a trace. a tragic situation that underscores the opinion of an experienced libyan traveler: the only effective means is probably armed intervention. i can, however, understand the western reluctance to accept this last resort. i can, however, offer considerably less sympathy for the delay in imposing a no-fly zone over libyan territory. in the end, inactivity in these areas comes at a high price: the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty. the european union can and must help lay the foundations for a libya after gaddafi, for a better future for this tribal state. make brother commander, as gaddafi calls himself, literally a wing lamb first.
mr president, i would like to announce the following. i reached an agreement with the shadows on my oral amendment to paragraph 18. this means that amendment 26 to paragraph 18 will be withdrawn by ms flautre. therefore i advise my group to vote in favour of amendment 29 to this paragraph.
mr president, i have an oral amendment to add in paragraph 18, ‘is concerned by the lack of progress in these investigations and notes that the recent detention of well-known journalists such as nedim şener and ahmet şık might lead to a loss of credibility of these trials which should, on the contrary, strengthen democracy’.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'common' in the title of the directive. i think we need to add a second priority: parliament must be an example of budgetary discipline! governments, businesses and citizens must now reassess their spending. the ep should do the same: not betting on more money but on new priorities. the course must be changed, because in particular the administrative expenditure of the european union has increased faster than total expenditure. and the ep is leading the way! the report refers in recital f to the european external action service, which is likely to cost more money. that too must change! why does this service have many dozens of employees and luxurious facilities in exotic locations such as barbados and madagascar? you get the comb through that service, you don't need any money. that must be the budgetary priority for the european union: not more money, but better spending.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the shadow rapporteurs with whom i have worked well over the last period. the result is there. a report was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the committee on foreign affairs, 62 votes in favour, with only 3 against. it is therefore very important that we speak with one voice on this important issue, not only in parliament but also in the european institutions as a whole. i am pleased that in this resolution we express our support and solidarity with the millions of protesters who have taken to the streets since the disputed 2009 presidential elections. this support and solidarity is sorely needed by the opposition forces in iran as they witness the fall of regimes and the departure of presidents elsewhere in the middle east. the green movement must have our support as the opposition once again seeks to organize legitimate resistance to the iranian authorities at the risk of its own life. the fact that this danger is real is proved not only by the arrest of the opposition leaders musavi and karoubi, but also by the wild and uncontrolled calls from a significant part of the majlis, the iranian parliament, to kill them. in our resolution, parliament calls on the iranian authorities to cooperate fully and unconditionally with the iaea, the international atomic energy agency, in vienna. the iranian nuclear programme has been surrounded by a suspicious smell precisely because of tehran's reluctant attitude. the concerns of the entire international community are more than justified. it is therefore unwise in my view to send the message that such a country has a right to enrich uranium. this is not the signal that the european parliament should be sending at this crucial moment. i therefore ask my colleagues to support my proposals to remove these passages from our resolution. the resolution also addresses iran's role in the region. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide monitoring mechanism for the implementation of the un security council resolutions on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. i therefore ask my colleagues to support my amendments on the role of iran in neighbouring iraq and to delete paragraph 53 from the resolution. in my opinion, the european parliament already gives sufficient support in paragraph 55 to the idea that the union and iran should have a stable afghanistan as a common objective. i would like to make one final comment, mr president, at the end of my speech. i am not lightly moved, and that is why i want to say something to iran and to the country's official representatives in brussels and the national capitals. i have seen correspondence from iran to my colleagues from various quarters. the tone and content of the report is striking, to say the least. this report - i have already referred to it - was adopted by an overwhelming majority in our committee on foreign affairs. that is why this resolution should not be seen as a private project of mine but as the common position of the whole european parliament. it is not my background as chairman of the first delegation of this house that has determined the critical tone of this resolution. on the contrary, this requires iran to examine its own behaviour. the whole of the european parliament, and i am grateful for that, accepts neither the denial of the holocaust nor the anti-semitic rhetoric of president ahmadinejad, although i regret to say that anti-semitism is not confined to the inner circle of the regime.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, is ahmadinejad better than gaddafi? while the international community is rightly focused on libya and seeks ways to end the violence gaddafi and his collaborators inflict on citizens, let us not allow iran to be snowed under in our political agendas. a massacre is also happening in iran, but it happens in slow motion. one execution every eight hours since the start of this year, and systematic repression, torture, rape and censorship have been rampant during the islamic republic, and in particular since the elections in 2009. ahmadinejad is no better than gaddafi and we need to invoke similarly harsh measures to protect human rights in iran. some might argue that sanctions are in place, but these only focus on the nuclear issue without yielding the desired results. in fact, this risks becoming a zero sum game vis-à-vis human rights as impunity meanwhile continues. madam vice-president/high representative, in this report the european parliament gives you the mandate to impose sanctions on individuals responsible for the grave human rights abuses that we see, and we have made this recommendation before. a list of 80 names has been leaked and attributed to your office. i want to ask whether this is a sign of your inclination to move ahead with this important measure. we also need to provide technologies for citizens to communicate freely and to access information, and the eu needs to be a safe haven for free thinkers. vice-president/high representative, let the eu lead on efforts to hold accountable individuals who rape women before execution so that there is absolutely no chance they may end up in heaven as virgins, men who shoot dead unarmed youths from rooftops while they walk in the streets, and the judges who convict human rights lawyers for defending juveniles and women. let us hold accountable a system that allows de facto imprisonment of opposition leaders. when libya is discussed on friday, please use the momentum to introduce similar measures against those in power in iran so that justice can be done to the iranian citizens who in 2009 started the massive youth uprisings that now inspire a generation in the middle east and in north africa.
president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, before the demonstrations in tunisia, egypt and libya, people were already taking to the streets in tehran. they did so at the risk of their own lives. they took to the streets because they wanted more democracy. they also wanted to protest the hatred and oppression of a wrong regime. i am therefore pleased that the report emphasizes human rights and i congratulate mr belder on that. the lesson we should learn is that we should do everything possible to help the opposition and all those who demonstrated there. we must help them against this regime. why do we have to do that? because the regime has the money and the oil and those who are oppressed can only achieve something if we do something. i am glad that in paragraph 32 of your report, bas, we are very clear on that point. president, as i look at the repression, i would also like to know from you what we are doing with opposition leader moesavi. are we still paying attention to the fate of mr karroebi? what concrete possibilities do we have as the european union to give more support to this? another proof of the dynamism of iranian society is the one million signatures campaign. one million signatures collected by women to oppose discriminatory legislation. i have nothing but respect for those brave women. i would like to know from mrs ashton where she can provide consular assistance, because it is not always provided.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr bas belder, on his excellent report. bas belder has written a very sharp report, proposing a hard line against iran. that's the right line. the dictator ahmadinejad continues to kill his own citizens and torture political opponents. the dutch zahra bahrami was also rumoured to have been tortured to death and i have asked to find out. i would ask the left socialists and the terrible greens in this parliament not to weaken this report with all sorts of amendments. the criminal regime of ahmadinejad continues to threaten israel and is trying to exert its influence in egypt. iran would like to see an islamic republic with political ayatollahs, sharia, stoning of women and hanging of gays. yes, colleagues, that is what many muslims believe pure islam stands for. even iranian warships have sailed through the suez canal, in a direct provocation against the west and against israel. i'd like to leave it at that.
mr president, mr belder's report is very good, because it is realistic and pragmatic. i think that the report in parts should have been much more forceful against this reprehensible regime of ahmadinejad. this scoundrel denies the holocaust and would rather see the state of israel sink into the sea today. christians literally have no life under ahmadinejad. and he oppresses his own people in a terrible way. never before have so many people been executed as in the past year. the eu must therefore continue to support the opposition forces which are focused on democracy and human rights. the regime of ahmadinejad cannot be dealt with harshly enough. i am thinking of sanctions and targeted action against iran's nuclear programme, as was done with the stuxnet virus. i look forward to the day this regime falls. today, if you like.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i think that this has been an interesting debate and i wanted to just deal with the two specific issues that were raised in a sense outside of the debate before winding up on that matter. ms paulsen asked me whether we could find space in the – i think the word was ‘glittering’ – new building, to be able to have people working on the issues of concern in human rights. can i just say that i was delighted that madam hautala, the chair of the subcommittee on human rights, wrote to me to say that she was pleased with the design of how we plan to deal with human rights within the new organisation. however, i am only moving people into one building to remove them from eight buildings where they are currently scattered around brussels, believing as i do that enabling people to work together will make us more effective. we will have to squeeze them in, because i am also trying to save money on the way. therefore i hope, when you see what we do, that the word ‘glittering’ will be a nice word and not a word, i fear, that suggests i am trying to do something that i genuinely am not. in response to ms sinclaire: the way that i was told to respond on human rights issues by parliament, by decision of this house, was to attend regularly the committee on foreign affairs (afet) to which the subcommittees – of which the subcommittee on human rights is one – would be invited and where they would be able to put questions to me. i have done that and i am more than happy to meet with ms hautala, as i do, and to respond to queries from her, as well as to attend the plenary debates in this house. i am more than happy to try and do more; i simply ask you to recognise that there is a limit to the amount of hours i have got in the day and the number of things i can do. but it is not out of any disrespect to the committee or indeed to you personally at all; far from it. i do hope that you will feel able to contact my office with issues of concern and indeed to attend the meetings where i am able to come and speak. i am very well aware of my own background in terms of being a leader of a house of parliament and not being elected, but i was very privileged to be elected by this house and of course to be invited into this role by 27 heads of state and the president of the commission. as far as that goes i am very mindful of my responsibilities. in relation to the debate itself and the human rights issues that have in a sense dominated our debate: i am trying to look at what more we can do. i will not comment on what currently is being dealt with specifically because i want to present this when we finish the work, but we are talking to human rights activists and to organisations, as well as considering across the 27 member states what might be a more effective way of being able to address this issue and to put as much pressure as we possibly can. as regards mr karoubi and mr mousavi, as i have said, it is even difficult to establish precisely whether they are in prison or under house arrest. i am trying to continue to get that clarification. of course we are supporting the resolution in geneva for a special rapporteur on iran. we do raise these issues directly as well; it is really important that we all stand together in pushing forward on human rights in iran. many honourable members have raised specific cases and the terrible record that this country has, and we need to do as much as we possibly can and i think we can do better if we do that together. finally, on the nuclear issue: i spent four and half days in direct discussions with the iranian negotiators and i am very clear in what i am trying to do, which is to provide an opportunity for this country, for iran, to show what it keeps saying, to demonstrate that it is moving in a civil nuclear power direction and not in a nuclear weapons direction. as i have said to them, it is not difficult: what they have to do is be open and transparent, to allow the inspectors to do the job they are supposed to do and to do the confidence building that we have ofttimes explained to them in great detail. it is for them to choose. i am absolutely clear as well that the security council and my role with the e3+3 will continue to put pressure on to try and make sure this happens. what is really encouraging is that although i lead the negotiations, i do so with the e3+3 sitting with me; and that shows very clearly to iran that we are totally united in our approach and i pay tribute to all those who work with me. they have to show the political will to do what is necessary; and if they do not, i say to the honourable members, we will have to do more to keep the pressure on.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, first of all, ladies and gentlemen, may i thank you very much for your valuable contributions to this debate. i listened to that very carefully. your contribution makes clear what i intend to do with this report, namely to indicate that our fundamental rights, our human rights which are so fundamental and form the basis of our existence, are also the rights of the iranians. that's identical for me. in other words, the attention we give to fundamental rights and their observance is essential. i am convinced that this will also create a future for iran, and in particular for the young people of iran. i was struck during the debate by what mrs lösing - she is unfortunately no longer here - said about the future. i'm sure that means a lot to me. let's look at the facts. for years now, more than 150,000 young, highly educated iranians have been leaving the islamic republic precisely because of the lack of prospects. not only because of the repression, but also because of the oppressive socioeconomic situation and the climate of unfreedom. that amounts - and an insider, an economist, told me that - to a loss of 40 billion a year alone, not counting the brain drain. i would like to point out in my report that our attention and our encouragement to open up more space and respect for human rights there really do give a future perspective. this will also benefit the region in terms of overall security. finally, madam high representative, i was very curious - i did not know, but colleagues have noticed - to know that a few weeks ago the american press was circulating the news that there was indeed going to be a list of serious human rights violations in the islamic republic of iran and of those responsible for them, from the top down, down to the prison guards. i would be very grateful if you would follow the american example in drawing up such a list, because then we would not only be dealing with the nuclear problem of the people who are proliferating and thus endangering global security, but also with the bad climate in iran. at the same time, it is a signal to the iranians that we are looking at the whole scenario in iran, not just the nuclear danger that is coming at us, and that we also believe that iran should be a normal civil society, in accordance with the high civilization that the country has in its historical tradition. finally, as a protestant, i should not be offended if you said that freedom of religion is extremely important to me. let me be clear: the report is a very sensitive one, and i am sorry to say that it is outdated. the wave of repression has hit the sunnis, the baha'is and the christians in particular in recent months, and i apologize to my colleagues for not being up to date. it is an incentive for me to continue - i am assuming an open-door policy - with iran, and i hope to be in contact with you often on this subject in order to really contribute to an iran with a future for all its people.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the un human rights council has the potential to address the ever more urgent and elaborate human rights violations across the world in different countries – iran, belarus, burma, tunisia, libya, etc., there are too many to mention – but also horizontal themes such as lgbt rights, free expression, rape as a war crime and the role of human rights defenders. in a sense, the un human rights council is in a similar position to the eu and it has to act as a global player. but both bodies suffer from the same problem – a lack of credibility, double standards at times, and they are not able to act quickly enough. the eu thus far has been unwilling to scrutinise its own human rights record sufficiently, for example its participation in renditions and the lack of press freedom in some of our member states. until last week libya was a member of the un human rights council. it has, rightfully, been removed. this is a very important precedent.
i would like to draw your attention to two points in your introduction. you spoke of direct negotiations. last week i had the privilege of speaking at length with the representatives of the israeli government and also of the israeli parliament, the knesset. you have to trust and believe the people you're talking to. they say they are committed to direct negotiations with the palestinian authority. i would therefore ask you to use all your diplomatic ingenuity to bring about these direct negotiations, because in the end, peace requires that both sides in the conflict be directly at the table. and in the light of the events in which arab masses are calling for accountable governments, we can conclude that now is the momentum to make a breakthrough. the second point: it was very good of you to refer to the sad fate of gilad shalit, who has been imprisoned for almost five years now. i spoke to his father exactly a week ago in the heart of jerusalem, and he asked whether europe still cared about his son. you have given me the answer. i hope you will continue to work hard to reunite father and son as soon as possible.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i understand the urgency of the commission in addressing the economic crisis and the high levels of debt which are a threat for the stability of the euro. i understand that conditions are imposed on countries that have to make use of the european financial stability mechanism. however, it seems to me that the commission is being quite selective in the measures and conditions it deems permitted in this crisis. on the one hand, nearly any measure seems legal when it comes to fiscal consolidation by cutting expenditure. as soon as ireland made use of the rescue package, minimum wages and pension levels were the first variables to be adjusted, despite the fact that these matters explicitly are not eu competences. on the other hand, the commission hides itself behind the lack of eu competence to leave the exceptionally low irish corporation tax untouched. whereas increasing this could also substantially improve public revenues in ireland. cutting expenditure is not, after all, the only way to achieve a balanced budget. i understand that this crisis requires exceptional measures, but why is the commission in such a hurry to adjust minimum wages, affecting workers who earn the least, while we have to wait and see about measures that make the banking and financial sector pay? i strongly get the feeling that the commission is interpreting the eu’s competences in a very one-sided and, dare i say it, right-wing manner. this blunt approach inspires euro-scepticism. it seems that the eu acts firmly in the field of employment and social policy only in times of crisis, and then does so by imposing cuts in social spending and wages. the eu can only regain confidence if the commission shows the same determination in setting proper minimum social standards and social guarantees for the heavy cuts imposed on people. yes, we do want economic governance, but we want balanced governance with both fiscal sustainability and social guarantees. if not, the vulnerable will pay the price for a mess that they are not responsible for.
mr president, very few people in the netherlands suspect that there are discussions here in brussels about their wages and pensions. we are seeing what is happening in ireland, but in the meantime i am also hearing all kinds of proposals for the european council on the abolition of wage indexation, on maximising wage increases with increases in labour productivity, and so on. unfortunately, there is a deafening silence on the subject of agreements on european minimum wage standards. nor do i hear any proposals to guarantee that workers get paid work and that they get full employment instead of piecework or on-call contracts. i am concerned about the impact of the current discussions on ordinary people, but i am also concerned about the image of the european union. it seems as if the interests of the financial institutions, the speculators and the big companies are the only ones being taken into account. commissioner, will the commission correct that image and ensure that it is seen as an institution which also represents the interests of ordinary people?
the rapporteur. - mr president, on the initiative of the socialist and democratic group and with the agreement of the other groups, i propose the following oral amendment after paragraph 6: strongly condemns the illegal detention of iranian opposition leaders mir hossein mousavi and mehdi karroubi together with their wives by iranian security forces and calls for their immediate and unconditional release; points out that the detention was carried out in violation of iranian law; condemns the attitude of the iranian authorities towards the opposition exercising its legitimate right to protest and declares its solidarity with the iranian people in their democratic aspirations; deplores the hypocrisy of the iranian government, which used excessive force, intimidation and arbitrary arrests against peaceful demonstrators demonstrating in solidarity with the egyptian people on 14 february 2011, while claiming to support freedom in egypt;
author. − mr president, despite the request made by the pakistani minister for religious minorities, shahbaz bhatti, for more protection after numerous threats, an assassin managed to murder him on 2 march. our sympathies go out not only to his loved ones, but also to all pakistanis who seek a more tolerant society. this is a real blow to pakistan as well as to humanity as a whole. why did the pakistani authorities deny the minister’s request for a bullet-proof official car, as well as his request that he select his own bodyguards that he trusted? by calling for reforms in the inhumane blasphemy laws, he was a human rights defender. we equally want to pay tribute to the work of naeem sabir jamaldini, the coordinator of the human rights commission of pakistan, who was murdered on 1 march. we need practical action such as investigations, including within the government. these have to take place in line with international standards because impunity has to end. the european union should monitor the situation and try to fund civil society through the instrument for democracy and human rights.
- a writer. - president. - the situation in pakistan is unfortunately worsening. attacks are taking place at all times and the government seems to have lost the will to intervene. last january, governor taseer was assassinated and last week the only christian federal minister bhatti. the european union and its member states are in contact with pakistan in many ways. there is cooperation on afghanistan, there are many hundreds of millions of dollars of aid going to the country for education and reconstruction, and there is investment in religious dialogue. but we have to hit the table with our fists now. the pakistani education system must be reformed, the hate speech about christians to young children must be stopped. aid for reconstruction after floods must be distributed fairly, including to non-muslims. it's not just in the interest of the west. if the pakistani government and security services do not get the situation under control, the country will sink into a quagmire of extremism. there's not much time left to turn the tide.
author. − mr president, a large number of opposition figures, including former presidential candidates but also journalists and human rights defenders, were arrested after the events of 19 december 2010 in minsk and they have been kept in kgb detention centres ever since. there have been reports of torture and of forced confessions at the hands of the kgb. these developments fit into a larger pattern of repression and politically motivated trials against opposition activists, civil society, the media and human rights defenders that continues to this day. we urgently call upon the belarusian authorities to allow political opposition, civil society, free expression and media pluralism. the rule of law needs to be adhered to. the credibility of the belarusian authorities would be won if investigations carried out in line with international standards, with international experts, were to start right away. we should consider restrictive measures, including economic sanctions on belarusian government-owned companies, but we hope this will not be necessary. we would welcome it if more countries in the international community were to join the call for such actions, because the status quo is unacceptable.
author. − mr president, under the banner of reform and development, the ancient silk road city of kashgar is being demolished. it is not only a blow to global cultural heritage, but most of all, the city is very important for the uyghur and the hui populations and for china’s cultural diversity as a whole, which is now being destroyed. china has stepped up efforts to boost relations through cultural diplomacy throughout the world, but no one will be interested in a marketed, homogenised culture of a country which has such cultural diversity. in the interests of economic opportunity and sustainable relations with the rest of the world, respect for human rights and minorities in the broadest sense is essential. we urge the chinese government to assess the possibility of including kashgar in the joint application with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan and uzbekistan for the silk road unesco world heritage designation. the high representative should step up the human rights dialogue with china and make it more action-oriented and effective.
in writing. − i rejected the proposal as a whole as i do not believe it solves the problems. i agree with etuc that the proposed changes will be ‘paving the way to interfere with social dialogue and intervene in collective bargaining systems all over europe’. furthermore, i disagree with the choice of the simplified treaty revision procedure. i believe that the ordinary treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause. finally, i urge the member states to enable referenda in all member states on proposals for treaty change.
in writing. − i rejected the proposal as a whole as i do not believe it solves the problems. i agree with etuc when they say that the proposed changes will be ‘... paving the way to interfere with social dialogue and intervene in collective bargaining systems all over europe’. furthermore i disagree with the choice of the simplified treaty revision procedure. i believe that the ordinary treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause. finally, i urge the member states to enable referenda in all member states on proposals for treaty change.
president. - in the committee on foreign affairs, the high representative made a specific statement yesterday afternoon on his intention to support the so-called 'new egypt' in combating the widespread housing shortage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of genuine european empathy. i therefore warmly welcome all european efforts to improve the living conditions in egypt. especially as the country is in a very uncertain transition phase after the departure of president mubarak, and cairo seems to be heading straight for a financial and food crisis. i believe that european aid to egypt must be accompanied by a twofold commitment on the part of the council. in the new egypt, all citizens, regardless of their religion, should be equal before the law, with equal rights for all. the european union is also committed to the peace treaty with israel, and to developing it further. the setting of these two conditions strengthens both the internal and external stability of the new egypt.
mr president, i understand that you have overlooked me for a moment. thank you for letting me speak. we're going to have a stabilization mechanism, a permanent support fund, that has to be paid for by the common man, by the people who don't get it as a gift. and the recipients are the people who actually get the gift. cheating, breaking promises, manipulating numbers will be rewarded from now on. ten years ago, a stability and growth pact was concluded with the solemn promise to keep public finances in order. that pact has been violated by germany, france, greece and others. large deficits were not eliminated. and now once again there are solemn promises that the new pact will work. brussels will decide what the dutchman can earn, when the dutchman can retire, and what he will get in retirement. again, the bill is paid by the taxpayer, by the people who don't get it as a gift. president, that permanent support fund is a costly plaything for the political elite to hide the fact that some countries cannot be trusted in a monetary union. there are countries that want the pleasures of the euro but not the burdens, that do not keep their finances in order. these countries, mr president, must leave the euro area. that is the only adjustment that the stability and growth pact needs.
the dutch guarantee of many billions of euros led former finance minister ruding to say: 'the road to budgetary hell is paved with guarantees'. indeed, the guarantees given are too high and too risky. the crisis is not summoned by it, because they miss their target. the present european crisis has been caused by the irresponsible accumulation of debts and the failure to honour agreements. if we do not address these core issues, we can give guarantees of whatever we want, but it will not help. we have a stability and growth pact. this was already laughed off by germany and france in 2004. now we had a chance to strengthen that pact, including automatic sanctions. but what happens? sanctions remain subject to political decision-making. it's not understandable. the german writer hans enzensberger just saw it. he expects the current situation to lead to cynicism and contempt on the part of the european political elite.
i would like to begin by expressing my sympathy and condolences to the people of japan. i know that we are about to have a further debate on japan, but i hope that the council will continue to honour any request from japan for specialist assistance in the coming days. we often talk about developing countries, but here we have a disaster area in a highly developed country, which may need additional assistance. now the second point: libya, you know. i believe that all the warm words that have been spoken about libya this afternoon, including by the commission, cannot hide the fact that the european union is absent in libya; the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the crisis in the cities and the actions of mr gaddafi's ground troops cannot be stopped at this time. thank you to the president of france. i think that he did indeed ensure that the european union, in conjunction with nato, could do something at the last moment, but the suffering of the people is not over at the moment, and modesty is in order. europe is better off after the crisis than during the crisis, as i have said on many occasions. finally, the euro pact. i think we have indeed made important steps forward. mr barroso calls it a cornerstone, but i think it is still loose and we have to move on in the coming months. it's not gonna be solved by tomorrow.
madam president, i endorse the words of my colleagues in the delegation for relations with japan – mr gollnisch and ms kalniete – words of respect and of sympathy to the japanese. we must, however, also learn, and that means that this potential nuclear disaster should have an international dimension. there must be absolute transparency. we must find out why the international atomic energy agency’s warning was not followed up; there was no discussion about this warning. we should find out what happened. i agree with all the others who say that we should combine our efforts in rebuilding. therefore a free trade agreement is of special value and we should conclude this agreement as soon as possible.
mr. oettinger, first of all, i'd like to congratulate you on your start. you started off fast last week, but since then, things have been pretty rough. you must now go further and make it clear, because what you said last week was that we must have a debate on europe, the future of europe without nuclear energy. you did not repeat that afterwards, when that should be the discussion. many studies show it time and time again, scientific studies: you can achieve your environmental goals, and you can do that without nuclear power. it can: europe fully on renewable energy. that should be the discussion. it's a political choice whether you're for nuclear energy or not. and it is not for us to defend why we are against nuclear energy. the people who are in favour of nuclear energy should explain why. that's why the stress test is so important. two questions to you, mr oettinger, two important questions. first of all: how are we going to set the criteria? how do we make them independent? and secondly: what happens if a nuclear power plant fails the stress test? what are the consequences?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the council and the commission. i am pleased to note that they share our concern. let us be very clear: i do not think anybody here is claiming that the us was acting outside its jurisdiction. that is not the problem. the problem is that its jurisdiction, through the internet, becomes extremely vast. its jurisdiction seems to extend even into the european union, because the problem here is that although the vast majority of the internet-based companies we are talking about are based in the us, many of the users are based in the european union. i should point out that this oral question is already a bit out of date, as there has been another court ruling in the meantime, but the argument that is being used by the american courts is that once you use twitter, as in this case, you cannot have a legitimate expectation of privacy any more. that means that anybody based in the european union – eu citizens – no longer have any legal protection, because twitter is us-based. as commissioner reding pointed out, that is a huge problem that must be addressed in the context of the review of the data protection directive. commissioner, you say that once someone has used twitter they have given consent, but what does ‘consent’ really mean? it means that we become outlaws, that we abandon our rights to legal protection. i realise there is very little that we can do here, but i would like to ask what the commission and the council will do to provide legal protection to eu citizens. will they talk to our american counterparts and try and get more information? there are probably other companies that have been subpoenaed. finally, you say, commissioner, that this case cannot be compared to swift because it concerns a very specific investigation, which is true. at the same time, they have requested large amounts of … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the freedom party attaches great importance to the privacy and protection of personal data. we are not short-sighted in that, but pragmatic. even privacy has its limits. privacy must be guaranteed wherever possible, but the safety of citizens must be subordinated to the prevention and detection of terrorism. president, today's terrorism is dominated by islamic terrorism. which is why, unfortunately, we all have to sacrifice a little bit of our privacy to protect the safety of the public. the personal data of internet users, such as ip addresses, obviously deserve protection. however, such protection shall not be offset by a strong suspicion that the persons behind such data have terrorist motives. if the us authorities want information on persons in the eu who are linked to terrorism, then the americans should be able to get it. of course, in good consultation and with good arguments, to avoid abuse. but let's not forget that they're not asking for information for fun. they have damn good reasons.
mr president, there is a photo exhibition on tar sands in canada in the square in front of our parliament. one picture really goes through the marrow and bone. you see beautiful virgin forests and then a sharp divide, where a polluted black oily lake of 170 square kilometers begins. this is a real bone-and-marrow thing, and i suggest everyone check it out tonight. in addition to the huge loss of biodiversity, tar sands oil has extremely high co2 emissions. biodiversity and co2 emissions are, in my view, sufficient reasons to oppose the exploitation of tar sands in canada and in other countries. but the least we can do is to include the polluting value of tar sands oil in the fuel quality directive. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course.
the pvda eurodelegation certainly does not consider this second phase agreement to be perfect, but believes that it makes progress in important areas. moreover, it avoids the united states from triggering the suspension clause in the absence of such an agreement. suspension could result in european passengers and airlines no longer being able to benefit from the significant benefits they have enjoyed since march 2008 and thanks to this protocol. benefits and positive aspects include agreements on labour standards for airline staff, sharing of good practice on noise reduction, enhanced cooperation on the environment, etc. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the introduction of a new system of checks on the safety of foodstuffs. the commission also stresses the need to give priority to and respect the privacy of european and us citizens when passenger data is exchanged between the eu and the us. it is of great importance that the european parliament is and remains involved in these negotiations and that european legislation is not left out.
mr president, in her report, mrs balzani, a socialist, points out the following: the eu does not take good care of its citizens, but above all takes good care of itself. the socialist and christian-democratic ruling clique ensures that there is always a majority in parliament to waste even more money. a fine 3 000 euros per member for staff, a nice extra job at the house of european history - for those fortunate enough to have the right contacts - a totally unnecessary and appallingly expensive european tv channel, a prestigious satellite project called galileo, which is increasingly turning into a financial disaster. fine, it's obvious... and then have the nerve to talk about sustainability and responsibility. the latter is out of the question. the first is mainly in the form of durability. mr president, i want to be clear. the trash can with this nonsensical report. this is not what the citizens of europe are waiting for. it does not express any ambition to cut back and, moreover, it only leads to more money being wasted. i thought wisdom came with age, but unfortunately not in this parliament.
mr. president, when you build a house, the highest bills come in the final stages. you know that in advance, and you agreed to that in the beginning. the same thing is happening in europe. at the end of the multiannual budgets, the highest bills are coming and you know that in advance. so opposition to the payment of these bills from various member states, such as my own, the netherlands, is nothing but a reaction from an unreliable government. it is the same as when a person who is building his house agrees to the bid and refuses to pay the final bill. of course, in the final phase, we can look for cuts, and we in europe must do the same. mrs balzani rightly points to this in paragraph 21 above. but that final bill will have to be paid anyway. to oppose this not only makes you unreliable, but also fuels anti-european sentiment in europe.
in writing. the pvda-euro delegation does not consider this second phase agreement to be perfect, but believes that it is making progress in important areas. moreover, it prevents the united states from triggering the standstill clause in the absence of such an agreement. suspension could result in european passengers and airlines no longer being able to benefit from the significant benefits they have enjoyed since march 2008 and thanks to this protocol. benefits and positive aspects include agreements on labour standards for airline staff, sharing of good practice on noise reduction, enhanced cooperation on the environment, etc. the ep delegation is however convinced that there is a need to continue to have a thorough debate on safety requirements (such as the use of scanners) and the implications of such requirements for the privacy and health of passengers. the commission also stresses the need to give priority to and respect the privacy of european and us citizens when passenger data is exchanged between the eu and the us. it is very important that the european parliament is and remains involved in these negotiations and that european legislation is not being eroded.
in writing. - i do not support the balzani report. the first reason is the call for the introduction of a form of eu tax. the second reason relates to the economic crisis and the painful interventions that are taking place in the member states. the eu must also make an effort not to let its budget get out of hand but to make the necessary cuts. in this context, i would urge a proactive approach to the ever-growing gap between the amounts committed annually and the amounts paid out. the reduction of commitments would bring payments and commitments closer together. i acknowledge that multiannual programmes coming to an end due to the 2007-13 multiannual framework will entail an increase in payments. in this connection, i propose that where some increase in payments is unavoidable, this should be countered by substantially lower commitments. this also applies to budget lines which are not being implemented. these measures are a logical and convincing step towards a more realistic budget in difficult economic times.
it's a point of order. mr strasser and the other gentlemen who have left parliament because of their corrupt practices: i would ask the president to see if it is possible to withhold their security deposit, because it would be a disgrace if someone who commits corruption here also took home security deposit. would you please investigate?
mr president, i was not quite sure under which point i should raise this, but two weeks ago the administration – following a number of cyber attacks – decided to close down the webmail for a week. it is quite some decision to prevent people from accessing their webmail for a week. explanations are in order. i would like to know if this was justified, if it was just a precaution and how vulnerable our system really is.
mr president, my party, the party for freedom, has always been crystal clear. we are and will remain opposed to a european policy on asylum and immigration. the member states are quite free to decide that. the current dutch government is the best government ever with a great agenda for asylum and immigration policy. in this respect, prime minister rutten and minister leers really do not need european intervention. my party is the party of clarity. what is today really about? i'm going to need international protection. we just call it "the shelter". we must not euphemistically cover up the bloodshed, especially at a time when we are faced with disastrous mass immigration of non-western immigrants. mr president, if it is europe's turn, we shall open all frontiers wide and make europe a walhalla for fortune seekers and profiteers, if it is not already one. look at italy, look at lampedusa. as far as europe is concerned, all the half-criminal barbary prospectors are simply going through the asylum procedure and will eventually be allowed to stay! mr president, can the commissioner explain why europe must always be the dog that is being bitten? why are all those boats coming our way? the only correct solution is to take care of them in the region. let the african union, the arab league or that horrible organization of the islamic conference sort this out. we should hold them responsible for the reception in the region, not ourselves. the report is a good example of the need to ensure that the european union is not a mere mere political entity. it is precisely at a time when hordes of asylum seekers from barbary are storming the european union that an asylum application must be made more difficult, not easier.
thank you, mr president, i would like to correct that. i wasn't talking about barbarians. perhaps that's how it came out in the interpretation. i am talking about the historical name of that area, namely barbary. you may not think so, but i just call it that. i'm not saying that people from barbary will come straight over here like barbarians. i'd like to see that corrected.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am happy that combating gender-based violence is a priority of both the european commission and the european parliament. that gives us a common goal to make real progress in the coming years. i hope this report will be considered an important contribution to the victims’ package that the commission has promised us, and that the victims’ package will, in turn, be one of the aspects of a europe-wide comprehensive strategy that includes victim support, but also other aspects of the struggle against violence. for instance, we need a minimum level of assistance services. every woman should have access to shelters, to free legal aid and to psychological aid. for example, we need to protect migrant women who do not have an independent residence permit and are extra vulnerable. this report includes many important aspects and we, as greens, hope that we can vote in favour of it. but if recital j and paragraph 19 stay in, which call prostitution a violation of human rights without even distinguishing between voluntary and involuntary prostitution, we will have to abstain. i hope it does not go that far and that we can have a strong and widely-supported report to offer to the commission and to the member states as our contribution.
the commission has indicated in the stockholm programme that it will use all possible means to combat violence against women. however, at present there is no comprehensive strategy, and there is a need for speed. security is an important asset, especially for the most vulnerable among us. this is also true for a large group of women who are still subject to forced marriage, honor killings and genital mutilation. these harmful traditional practices affect many girls and women in europe every day. we need adequate resources to address this violence. this requires research, and it requires special attention to the victims of such practices. the commission must therefore draw up as soon as possible a european strategy to combat violence against women, with special attention to traditional harmful practices. better today than tomorrow and not 2012 or 2013. it is therefore unacceptable that an important instrument such as the european protection order has still not been established. one's safety cannot and should not stop at the border.
mr president, last friday hundreds of so-called asylum seekers from the former barbary states escaped from reception camps on the italian mainland. these immigrants were brought there from overcrowded lampedusa. mr president, the harsh reality is this: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. immigrants interviewed on tv neatly indicated which cities they would prefer to go to - amsterdam, rome, they didn't care much - or worse, complained about the lack of cigarettes and liquor supplied by the italian authorities. mr president, you almost forget that people are consciously choosing to go against the law and deliberately abuse the social provisions in europe. these so-called asylum seekers, whom i would rather call profiteers, must be taken in by the region. the african union, the arab league or the terrible organisation of the islamic conference are responsible for the reception. the european union is not responsible for these fortune seekers. and if they do, let us speed up the asylum procedures for the so-called refugees enormously and send them back as quickly as possible to countries in and around barbary. let those countries take responsibility, not us and not now. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's true, i use harsh words, but those words are very clear. we are now facing a huge influx of refugees into the european union and the majority on the left say that they are all pathetic people fleeing their countries. fine, but why do they all have to come to europe? i think it is more difficult to go to europe by boat than to go to morocco or saudi arabia. of course they come here, because here is the social services and here they get money from the government. and you all allow all this! we must take a strong stand against this and we must ensure that we as members of the european parliament stand up for the citizens of the european union. if you keep thinking like this, we can go down. then we'll go and look under the sahara. everyone comes here eventually. that's not worth it. that's your world, that's not my world. i wish you success in that, but it is not what the people want, and certainly not in the netherlands.
mr barroso, you will have your way. there will be a permanent fund for the euro, a fund that will finance countries that have plundered their treasuries, a fund that will shift the risks to the countries that are doing their jobs. most economists agree with us: the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. it is a soft agreement that rewards weak and fraudulent countries with soft loans. where's the money gonna come from? how is the fund replenished? on paper, all countries will participate in that fund, including ireland, greece and portugal. but these countries have no money at all! the bottom line is that the countries that are doing their job, like the netherlands, are going to pay. dutch citizens are going to foot the bill for weak member states like greece and portugal - your country, mr barroso - and that is unacceptable, mr president. that is not solidarity, but rewarding the bad behaviour of a number of weak member states at the expense of hardworking dutch, germans and belgians. the euro cannot be saved in this way. instead, we will have to expel those countries. greece must get its drachma back and portugal must reinstate the escudo. some countries will have to accept that they have to leave the eurozone, and they have to do it all on their own.
president, the last european council took decisions that were unthinkable a year ago, and i would like to thank president van rompuy and president barroso for that. it is an important step, but it is a very difficult one, on the road we have to take to restore confidence in the euro and in our economy, to get out of the crisis by promoting economic growth and employment. this parliament - as you have indicated - has a co-legislative role in the legislative package to strengthen economic governance. we want to see even greater ambition in this and you will be able to discuss this with parliament in the near future. we therefore want a stronger and more ambitious monetary policy, based on the proposals of the european commission. you have heard from several colleagues that we want a stronger stability and growth pact with a reverse voting procedure. secondly, we need much stronger socioeconomic coordination. this is more than the commitments of the europact - because the eu 2020 strategy embodies the principles of our social market economy - it is more than a commitment to develop those principles in order to promote growth and jobs for our citizens. we want to secure these objectives - and i hear president barroso talking about this - in the national reform programmes and we will also make proposals on this. you say and emphasize that these points can be concluded already with a view to reaching an agreement in june. we are not in favour of a single currency, but we are in favour of a single currency, and we are in favour of a single currency.
for years, many member states have pursued a budgetary policy in which the trees seemed to grow to the sky. debt was no problem, for economic growth would make it disappear like snow in the sun. many private citizens felt the same way. they bought expensive houses, far above their means. the increasing value of that would save them. this house of cards is folded. the debt crisis is being fought with new debts. the european central bank has bought billions of dollars worth of government bonds from portugal, ireland and greece. the economies of these countries must now be kept under the whip and constantly grow for many years to come back on top. that is not going to work, mr president. these economies are shrinking at an alarming rate. the company is headed for bankruptcy. so it's time for crisis management 2.0. let the bankrupt countries continue with their former currencies combined with a major devaluation and partial debt cancellation. and then we'll look back in a year or ten.
in writing. - violence against women is reprehensible and must be tackled with a firm hand. on this point the pvv fully agrees with this report. however, the role of islam is not mentioned in this report. only once does the report speak very generally of 'religious practices or traditions' in paragraph 3. this is despite the fact that violence against women is a common practice in islam. the oppression of women is an intrinsic part of islam. the pvv wants to combat violence against women, but votes against the present report because it leaves the motives and background of the perpetrator unnamed. by not explicitly identifying islam as a cause of violence, we are missing a precious opportunity to address this specific form of violence against women.
what can be said in one minute about the 2012 budget of the european parliament? not much, but enough. this report has no vision, it is just a series of empty phrases which once again prove that the european union has no added value. the 2012 budget shows waste, especially on a nonsensical project like the house of european history. the cost estimates are getting out of hand and the chairman of the committee on budgets, which is responsible for deciding on the financing, is also a member of the supervisory board. no other parliament would accept such a conflict of interest, but this european parliament does. i can't even begin to describe it. mr lamassoure yesterday indicated that he wished to make his mandate available. the pvv therefore now urges that this be done. i hope that the waste of money for the coming year will be limited and actually stopped. in the meantime, i will continue to monitor and warn on behalf of the citizenry.
madam president, i have a question for my honourable colleague. what is wrong with populism, seeing that parliamentarians are the voice of the populus, the people?
in the present economic climate, i take it for granted that the european parliament is making a budget that is frugal. and the rapporteur rightly chooses self-control. unfortunately, he's not going far enough. the proposals now are that we should have a budget that is 2.3% higher. that is not in line with what the commission wants, which is thinking of a 1% increase, and certainly not in line with what the council wants, which is even thinking of a few percentage cuts. we should do the same. we need to cut back. and you can. we can cut back more. it may have been decided earlier to build that house of european history, but we can also reverse a decision. so let's do that instead. we must stop this multi-million dollar project of the house of european history. and then i think about us. we still receive many thousands of euros in general expenses compensation every month without any accounting being made of that amount. if we start to check and investigate properly, we can save a lot of money there too. let's bet on that now: i'm going to save more.
i represent the most pro-european party in my country, the netherlands. it is precisely because i believe so strongly in europe that i am very critical of europe and also of the budget of our own institution, the european parliament. i therefore also think that we must be very frugal in these difficult financial times and i therefore do not agree with the increase. i am particularly surprised at the original budget which the secretary-general brought, more than 5% higher, as i am also surprised at the fact that he is not here. i would have liked to have had him here because i would remind him of paragraph 6 of the resolution in which we ask the services to go through the budget with a dust comb to look for possible cuts. i would ask him to do so before 1 july this year so that we can come up with concrete cuts. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to call on my pro-european colleagues: i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices.
i am pleased with the report. the reason is very sad, however, and is that fraud is widespread in the european union. i quote: the commission does not deal with fraud and irregularities very generally. a large amount of eu funds is being misused. the irregularities in poland, romania and bulgaria are increasing disproportionately. spain and italy account for the highest number of irregularities. and in recent years, only 10% of legitimate claims have actually been recovered. and finally , bulgaria is the country which is most likely to fraudulently use special accession aid in the field of agriculture and rural development. just some facts from the report. it is good that it is on the record, but what is the european union going to do about it? how long will fraud be tolerated and how long will the public have to pay the bill? (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i thank my colleague for the question. if you have read the report carefully, you will have seen the facts, namely that the netherlands - i cannot speak for the united kingdom, but i am speaking for the netherlands - is one of the countries with the lowest fraud rate, and i would like to point out that if there is fraud, it will be dealt with very harshly. i'm all for that. let's get that straight.
there is one thing i would like to add. we are talking about biodiversity. one issue that is urgent at the moment is that some member states – among them mine – are trying to get lower targets from the european union on nature legislation. i would really like to know whether the commissioner agrees that we could go for lower targets or whether we should stick to the current ones.
mr president, you have just made the remark that i would be late with my 'blue card'. i wasn't. even during mr duff's speech i made it clear that i wanted to speak. i don't know exactly what the procedure is. can i still have the "blue card" or will you continue the debate? i would like to ask mr duff a further question about what he said, because he started with the transnational list. i did not know we were going to discuss that and i would like to ask him a question about that.
(the president asked for a 'blue card' question to be put to mr duff (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)). the problem i have with this transnational list, which mr duff has started to discuss in his report which we are going to discuss shortly, is not so much that a transnational list is being drawn up. i am, of course, completely against that. my problem, however, is that only parties - but we are talking about european political parties - which are therefore represented in at least seven member states are allowed to take part. my party is a party that stands up for the interests of the netherlands. we have little to say to parties in other member states who are standing up for their own country. i'd like to give them that. but you are also excluding a lot of parties that cannot run for those 25 seats. that worries me very much. i do not know how you see that, how you want to be involved. then can you make things easier for them? in any case, we feel seriously excluded.
the freedom party is here in parliament for the dutch people. we are here because we believe that the european union as it exists today does not serve the interests of the netherlands. we are not against the european union, but we only want it to be limited to economic cooperation. mr president, european political union is therefore absolutely unthinkable to us. the power should be in the hands of the member states, because only they can decide what is best for their own citizens. european political parties have no added value for the welfare of the citizens of the european union and the netherlands. the provision in the treaty of lisbon, mr president, that political parties at european level - and i quote - contribute to the formation of a european political consciousness and to the expression of the will of the citizens of the union is a ridiculous and alien observation. the public has no interest in this. together, these european parties received some eur 67 million in european grants between 2004 and 2010. completely useless and taxpayer money thrown away. a political party must by definition be able to function without subsidies, and so must european political parties. it is a club of interests that nobody knows about, that nobody is waiting for and that we can miss like a toothache.
draft report by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. - thank you, mr president, that means i get extra minutes from mr lehne. i would like to thank the commissioner and everyone for what we have discussed here. i am, however, missing a few points which i think are very important and which i have put in the report. i hope the commissioner will cooperate in making this happen. we praise professor monti, but his conclusion was that the transposition of the directive is the great problem of the internal market. he says we should work more with regulations. i think less is more, less legislation from europe. but we must do what we do in the same way, because we must avoid creating a patchwork of 27 member states which have transposed the legislation in a different way, which is a huge barrier for smes to go abroad. secondly, mr president, and perhaps most importantly, i am missing the word marketing. we have top lawyers here. we make great laws. we believe that we must improve the market for the citizens. only the civilian doesn't know. we have the problem that we cannot cross the bridge. we are speaking in legal terms, but we are clearly not capable of direct communication with the citizen. what is in danger of happening - and i hope it does not - is that we as the european union are drifting further and further away from the citizens of europe. i think we really need to start focusing and investing in the coming years on how we can get individual citizens to support the european union and what we do. i think there is a lot to be done, and we need to invest in it and we need to ask the communications managers how best to do that. secondly, i see that the public does not know the difference between the european commission, parliament and the council. in each member state we have three representatives who are not allowed to do anything because they work for official organizations. if there is negativity about the european union in the member states, there is no one who can stop it. i think it would be useful to consider having one representative on behalf of the european union in the member states - call it an ambassador - who could eventually respond to any negative talk about the european union. if we do that, we'll prevent ourselves from becoming the titanic, because on the titanic, everyone thought everything was great, but in the end, danger was coming from outside.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. - i thank the commission and the council for the opening of this morning's debate. i have written the opinion on the internal market with great interest from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i think that the single market should be supported by the european parliament in a broad sense, but especially by the committee on civil liberties, because the free movement of persons is particularly important within the union, of labour migrants and skilled migrants, who we need to increase the labour market in that single market. but, mr president, there are many intentions, but not enough results. i am very pleased with the 12 levers of commissioner barnier and i hope that we can speed things up in the coming months, because competition outside the eu does not wait for the internal market within the eu.
mr president, let me start with the positive. the reports before us mention a number of good elements, such as the smooth implementation of the services directive, the european patent and the tackling of excessive roaming charges. these are issues that touch the heart of the single market and help citizens and businesses. unfortunately, i also have to say that many other initiatives completely miss the objective of the single market. i'll name a few: climate and co2 targets, socioeconomic equality, fair labor conditions and of course more solidarity, or socioeconomic redistribution, and certainly more money to spend on it. these are all proposals of a socialist nature which, in our view, do not belong in the european agenda and certainly do not fit in with the internal market. it is a utopia to think that the differences in europe can be brushed away by socioeconomic interventions. the internal market is not designed to create an all-embracing equality in europe. president, the freedom party would prefer a single market that focuses on the core: promoting freedom and economic cooperation. address the backlog of maintenance on this and remove redundant initiatives. the vision of the internal market that is being promoted here is a bridge too far for the pvv.
in discussing the excellent report by mr louis grech, i had the impression that both parliament and the commission were aware of the need to make the internal market more social. we all agreed that the cause of the partial failure of the internal market is that it has won the hearts of big companies but not those of ordinary people. proposals for a social clause to protect trade union rights and collective bargaining agreements have so far failed to pass. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. even the position of the trade union movement is in question. commissioner barnier, do not let yourself be misled. follow your social heart and make sure that the single market is for everyone and not a toy for big companies. that's why i'm calling for: the commission has already made a proposal which makes it clear that social rights must not be subordinated to the principle of unrestricted competition. i have a word with mr sinclaire. it was a pleasure to submit the written statement on smes together with malcolm harbour. we have not had your support and i think your criticism of that is totally unjustified.
mr president, i definitely do not want to reopen the debate, but we really should think twice about giving the floor to people who can put their personal opinion forward under the disguise of scientific evidence. let us just vote. we have made up our minds. (applause)
in writing. the pvv votes in favour of this resolution because there is a clear doubt about the health claim of dha. we do want to see a review of the procedure for granting health claims. the pvv is a strong supporter of independent scientific research and that is why we want a transparent procedure with no doubtful outcome.
on behalf of my group, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his very active involvement in the nuclear safety issue immediately after the disaster in japan. this is of great importance for the safety of our citizens, because the nuclear disaster in japan makes it clear that it is necessary to review our nuclear safety rules. this is an important task for you, together with the council, because we in europe are interdependent when it comes to nuclear safety. we need a european stress test for all nuclear installations and the criteria must be harmonised, as you said. that stress test should be reported in an objective and transparent manner, i.e. publicly, taking as a starting point the highest safety level. i hope, mr president, that you will work hard with the member states to achieve that harmonized approach so that we can be sure that the highest safety standards are being applied. and if a nuclear installation does not pass the stress test well, you will ensure, together with the council, that there is a commitment that that member state will take immediate action. it could also be the temporary shutdown or even the permanent closure of a nuclear power plant. it is important to include nuclear power stations across our borders, because they are sometimes even more important to our citizens than nuclear power stations in europe. so take good care of it. we must act with prudence and consider the risks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy. but we must rethink our future and develop renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in an ambitious way.
mr president, i would like to ask my colleague how many nuclear plants have to go down before she says that it is enough. she talks about only one nuclear plant in japan having been hit. however, there were six nuclear plants, not one. how many would be enough for her to change her opinion?
for the epp group a radical regime change in the sense of a seizure of power by radical islamic forces in syria, bahrain and yemen would amount to a downright disaster scenario both domestically and abroad. the laughing stock in this desperate situation, at least in the arabian peninsula, would certainly be the iranian leadership duo khamenei-ahmadinejad, which would temporarily lose the already small chance of a persian spring. en passant, the crisis situation in damascus, manamah and sanaa offers the eu a prime opportunity to set clear conditions for backing the beleaguered regimes in close coordination with the united states: the commission has also been active in the field of education and training. a few years ago, mr president, we visited syria with a delegation from the european parliament. this is the only secular state in the region that has been hosting hundreds of thousands of fleeing iraqi christians since 2003, a warning sign. the west must do its utmost to ensure that the bloody sectarian civil war in iraq does not continue in syria.
mr president, we are talking today about three very different countries with very specific local conditions. in yemen, the uprising is massive, despite brutal violence by the police and the army. in bahrain there is a great risk of destabilisation of the whole region through the involvement of saudi arabia and iran. finally, in syria, the opposition has practically no space and the regime seems ready for anything. on the basis of these specific circumstances, i believe that the eu should organise bilateral relations with these countries. there are a few principles. there is, of course, a right to demonstrate and to express oneself freely for every citizen. but what do we do about the peaceful protests, where those civilians were at the same time victims of the intervention of the police and the army? do we have to have an international investigation? what is the eu doing to promote this research? secondly, governments have a duty to enter into dialogue with the opposition and civil society organisations, because violence and repression are never the solution. what is the eu doing in practice to promote this dialogue? then, if the regimes in syria and bahrain, but also in yemen, are unable or unwilling to listen to their people, where does that lead when we talk about relations with those countries? we must provide concrete help - as has been said many times here - but that concrete help must also be given a chance. how are we gonna do that? i would have liked to have heard a plan for that today. i would also like to make one further comment, also to the commissioner. i think that in the specific case of syria we should also call on turkey to exert pressure, also in connection with the plans which are apparently to be adopted in the coming days. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i think that our own delegation for relations with the mashreq countries could do a very good job here and that we should do everything we can to enable it to do so.
the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. in the least developed countries in africa, a lot of progress has been made in the last 10 years. these countries worked towards better governance and mobilised their own financial resources. rich countries provided debt relief and vaccine availability, among other things. but we are far from there, because the rapid economic growth in the poorest countries does not bring about a proportional reduction in poverty. the list of the poorest countries has remained virtually unchanged for decades. the number of people living on less than a dollar a day has gone down, but the number of people living on less than two dollars a day has stayed the same. the rich countries preferred to maintain corrupt regimes rather than think about fair shares. it is absurd and cynical to then cry that development policy is not working. we haven't given it enough of a chance. the un conference in istanbul will have to draw the conclusions from this. much more attention needs to be paid to the fair distribution of wealth within the poorest countries themselves. that's what gives us stability, that fair distribution. it relieves tension and brings peace. social justice also brings much more economic development than the inequality of dictatorships with a small clan at the top. countries with democracies achieve that fair distribution much faster than dictatorships. good governance is bringing the mdgs closer. more is also needed for public health. for a family in a poor country, illness is a financial disaster. sickness is a luxury no one can afford. we must therefore work on financing health care with health insurance, so that not only vaccines are available, but also good hospitals and clinics.
can you agree with me that the foreign interests of the rich western countries in europe and the united states have kept dictators in power and that this has often made development aid ineffective because it went into the wrong pockets and we have never done anything about it in the name of stability that did not deserve its name, as we see in north africa and the middle east? standing up for democracy means standing up for democrats in developing countries and toppling dictators, but allowing development aid to continue.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the committee on foreign affairs has delivered a good and balanced report on the progress of macedonia, and we as greens will gladly support it. on the one hand it is critical of the authorities in macedonia, and more so than last year. they need to work on political stability, they need to stop any provocation of ethnic non-majorities and neighbours, and they need to guarantee freedom of the media and expression. on the other hand, it unambiguously calls for the opening of negotiations. the country complies with the criteria and deserves that. i wish greece would respect the advice of the commission and parliament and stop blocking the accession process. it can always put the brakes on the final decision if it really wants to. i very much hope macedonia will keep working on becoming a mature european democracy, regardless of what greece does. the accession dialogue that commissioner füle just mentioned sounds promising in that respect. reform is a good thing in any case.
on behalf of the s&d group, the end of the power struggle in côte d'ivoire is in sight after more than 1,500 deaths, almost a million refugees in the region, entire streets full of looted houses and an economy that came to a standstill. the country is going through a catastrophe and that is the price laurent gbagbo has paid for refusing to admit defeat. here, a sharp condemnation of his reckless refusal to respect the electorate is in order. it is also appropriate to condemn all the violence of the past few months, the many violations of human rights, the threats, the violence against un staff, the incitement to hatred and the kidnappings. there's still shooting, but there's negotiations about gbagbo's departure, and that's good news. but in ivory coast, there is an emergency. many ivorians now lack food and water because they did not dare leave their homes. it is essential that president alassane ouattara be given full support in returning to the rule of law, where people can live in peace and without fear, and where freedom of the press is restored. that's the first task now. the president has a duty to prevent his troops from using force against the population and it is good that ouattara has launched an inquiry into the conduct of the shocking massacre in duékoué. whether the ivorian people restore the rule of law through the courts or through a truth and reconciliation commission, one thing is clear: war crimes do not run out of time. the international criminal court must be allowed to do its job. the sanctions have had an impact, gbagbo was financially drained. but now we must ease the sanctions quickly, once ouattara has taken his rightful seat. because everything is at a standstill, even programmes to provide medicines to people with hiv-aids in côte d'ivoire are now in jeopardy. president. - the donors of côte d'ivoire must not abandon the country now.
i was confused. i heard the hungarian presidency say: mr ouattara won the war, now he has to win the peace. i've been watching tv all day and keeping track, and i think ouattara is still winning the war. it looks like it's happening, but it's not. if he is finally allowed to take his place as president of the country, he will have gone through four months of misery in which the country has been broken down, the economy has been helped to collapse, there have been deaths and the population has been divided. what a start to a new era of governance! and if we call elections that lead to wars "a victory for democracy in africa", we are wrong. but it is even more serious that the country is reacting in this way to elections. what should we do as europe now that mr ouattara has had the chance to do his job? i think that with the cocoa boycott we have shown that we can act fairly quickly and that we can also use trade for democracy. ivory coast is an acp country, so it receives our development aid and political dialogue is part of that. we must enter into this political dialogue with a man who has shown that he can bring all parts of the country back together. he will have to show us and the rest of the world and especially his people that he can overcome these atrocities and that he can change himself.
in the run-up to this debate, i have re-read the open letter from svetlana alexiyevich, the most important intellectual voice in belarus, to president alexander lukashenko. she writes: our people are afraid of the revolution too. but as in the past, no one wants to live. before the elections, the political dialogue in our society had just begun and you immediately and grossly broke it. once again, the country is paralyzed by fear. end of quote. alexeyevich calls on lukashenko to resume the dialogue with the people. is that a naive thought? after all, in an interview published on january 31, 2011 in the neue züricher zeitung, the writer speaks of lukashenko as the hostage-taker of the entire belarusian nation, the dictator of the little man, over whom only the kremlin can really exert influence. the point is, however, that there is no indication that lukashenko is willing to turn himself in to moscow. the european institutions then offer a strategic opening, despite the current problematic situation. i wish commissioner füle much wisdom, perseverance and certainly the full support of our parliament in finding and exploiting responsible contacts with belarus.
today we are laying an important foundation for the development of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi). i would like to make one point, for the commissioner, one specific point on the programmes at the external borders, the cross-border programmes. we have 15 programmes with a budget of 1.1 billion. we hear all over the place that things are not going well. it's been a slow process. the flexibility is very limited and i understand that the polish presidency is working on this today. the poles really want to evolve and see if changes are needed to bring these programmes back to the cohesion, to objective 3, the interreg approach, which we have known for many years. my question to the commissioner is this: how do you handle that? in fact, the enpi regulation already stated that you came up with an evaluation last year. i haven't seen those pieces. how do you now fit that into your publications for next may and are you perhaps prepared to hold a hearing with this parliament where we invite the people most concerned and hear their experiences? i feel that some things really need to be adjusted.
the revolutions in north africa and the middle east bring with them opportunities. the work of reconstruction and democracy in tunisia and egypt can really begin now. in the squares and streets of cairo, tunis, benghazi, women were and are an important part of the revolutions. there are so many opportunities, but also dangers. the accusations of a young libyan woman on television of rape by gaddafi's troops have rocked the public. yet, these were not the first or the only messages. sexual violence is used as a means of suppressing women and silencing them, for example in cairo where women are abused and subjected to virginity tests by the military. in the libyan war, violence against women is being used as a weapon. in a power vacuum created by lawlessness, there is no control. women are free birds. so i want to send a clear message, mr president: this is not allowed, this is not allowed! a clear signal to the new rulers that these kinds of crimes must be investigated and punished. no one with these crimes on their conscience should get away with it. i would also like to stress that these women must be protected and that the role of women in the construction of society must not be forgotten. women's rights must be enshrined in law and for that, women must also be given sufficient seats in constitutional committees, in parliaments, in governments, so that issues such as education for women, their rights, the fight against harmful traditional practices are also high on the agenda. economic independence is a spearhead of women's emancipation and entrepreneurship should be encouraged, for example through the use of micro-credit.
on behalf of the s&d group, president, congratulations to mr cutaş on the excellent report on the eib's 2009 annual report. i also compliment him on the overview he gave here. i would like to focus on one aspect, however, namely the relationship between the council and parliament. the european parliament is a co-legislator for the external mandate of the european investment bank, for all the bank's activities outside the eu, in neighbourhood countries and in developing countries. the council is, however, taking great pains to give serious thought to proposals from this parliament on the revision of the external mandate. i am surprised that the council thinks it is quite normal to declare all sorts of new proposals from this parliament unacceptable. these include proposals for an active role for the eib in measures to combat climate change and for a greater role for the eib in microfinance. are these proposals not acceptable? is it the council that defines the space within which the european parliament may think? no, the european parliament and the council are co-legislators on an equal footing and must work together and in close contact with the european commission to establish rules for the eib's external action. that requires consultation, joint thinking, compromise and an open attitude on the part of the two legislatures. it is absurd and counterproductive to say 'unacceptable' to proposals which the european parliament, by a large majority, considers to be important. i call this inaccessible attitude of the council unacceptable. the fact that no one from the council is present is absurd and suggests that it is inaccessible. the eib is a key instrument for the eu's external action in the world. the development of our neighbouring countries requires a public bank, which can lend to promote economic growth and improve infrastructure. the same applies to our relations with the developing countries. there too a public bank is indispensable. the bank must respect the treaty of lisbon and its objectives. poverty reduction is one such objective. the european parliament wants to make this clear in the bank's external mandate. i expect the council to adopt an open and constructive attitude so that we can come to that clarification together.
- a writer. - i have been involved in the situation in zimbabwe for about ten years now. i worked for a development organization in amsterdam, and once in a while we would bring zimbabwean human rights activists to the netherlands, to europe, also to get a little better. not just to meet people here and hear their stories, but to give them the opportunity to get away from zimbabwe. one of the people i met during that time was abel chikomo, who is also mentioned in this resolution. a human rights activist who, in all these years, has not lost his enthusiasm for the cause, his motivation. it is for such people that we adopt these kinds of resolutions. because to be honest, i don't think mr. mugabe is awake. the point is that he and his colleagues in the mdc should retain their motivation to continue their work. what can we do about it, apart from maintaining sanctions? i would urge that we tighten up the kimberley process for the trade in conflict diamonds so that diamonds from zimbabwe are not for sale because the government there is violating human rights, oppressing people, using child labour, etc. our commitment to zimbabwe is well known, but we will have to mention it again and again, precisely because of people like abel chikomo.
declaration approving the agenda for the week see the minutes.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the commission on the crisis in the european fisheries sector due to the increase in the price of oil, by joão ferreira and patrick le hyaric, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (o-000096/2011), by josefa capolin and josé antonio santos, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left (o-000096/2011), by luis capolin and patrick le hyaric, on behalf of the socialist group (o-01010/2011), by manuel santos and catherine blasenstein on behalf of the european people's party (o-01010/2011), by ulisses rodríguez on behalf of the european people's party (o-010/2011), by ulisses rodríguez on behalf of the european democratic group (o-010/2011), by ulisses rodríguez on behalf of the european people's party (o-010/2011), by philippe blasenstein on behalf of the european people's party (o-010/2011), by ulisses rodríguez on behalf of the european people's party (o-010/2011), by philippe blasenstein on behalf of the european people's party (o-010/2011), by philippe sán andrésia and catherine blas, on behalf of the european democratic group (o-07/2011), by ulisses rodríguez on behalf of the european people's party (official group) and christian louisa)
- a writer. - mr president, the situation in the fisheries sector is very serious. fuel prices are high, fish prices are low, historically low. i would like to ask you, colleagues, to pay attention to the fishing in the shoals. the fishing in schools is important for my country, the netherlands, but also for france, belgium, england and denmark. a few years ago, there was a shortage of schools. for this reason, duty-free imports of other flatfish were allowed. cheap alternatives, less tasty ones, but that's beside the point. today, however, there is enough schooling. however, duty-free imports of cheap flatfish will continue. the result: the fresh shoal is sold well below cost or is passed over at auction. i wish! the duty-free import of flatfish fillets must be stopped, mr president. it is not only the fishermen who want this, but also the processors and the trade. - why? - why? the fishermen's survival is essential for the trader, otherwise the trade will not have any stock in its range in the future. colleagues, concrete measures are urgently needed. the crisis calls for european action. i call on you to vote in favour of this measure.
president. - mrs kroes, today is europe day. europe is eager to find concrete issues that matter to its citizens and that also bring prosperity and well-being on a european scale. this subject, this report by mr hökmark, fits that perfectly. it is concrete and brings us closer to both the social and the economic. it's freeing up scarce broadcast space that's badly needed to meet that demand for more and more and faster wireless internet connections. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in 2013 800 mhz will be released, in 2015 1200 mhz and that is badly needed if europe wants to remain one of the world's leaders. these services have a high economic value: 200 million a year, about 3 to 4% of economic growth depends on sufficient spectrum, and that percentage is only increasing. for example, look at the cellular standard that we created together in the 1990s. that was one of those impulses at the right time. i have to tell you, these economies of scale are ticking. it could make a difference of 80 billion euros a year. the netherlands, my country, which i am also honoured to represent here, is ready. we've already made room for the fourth generation of mobile internet. in short, the problems of the emergency services, the television stations, the public broadcasting and the remaining problems of possible interference, the problems with local microphones, will be solved. i therefore hope that on the basis of this excellent and promising report, an agreement will be reached with the commission at first reading. good luck with that!
mr president, i think there are two views on the free trade agreement with india. first, the view that says: we now have an agreement which is the most extensive in the world, so it must go on, it is important, and then the series of so-called non-trade aspects, such as minority rights, child labour and caste discrimination, will naturally be addressed during the trade flows. i call this the merchant's vision. that view dominates the resolution before us. the second view, mr president, is that we must first of all be clear about the non-trade aspects and then we must conclude an agreement. that's what i call the reverend's vision. we know that in that case india will certainly not make a deal. mr president, i would like to remind this house that in march 2009 we adopted a resolution which looked at both the trade and non-trade aspects. the resolution before us is a step backwards in my view. it has a sustainable development clause, but it's toothless. the dalits are hardly mentioned. nature and the environment are dealt with in the text before us. i therefore do not support the text of the resolution. our negotiators must stick to the 2009 resolution. the merchant and the vicar must continue to work together, and i quote the commissioner, only then will you have a balanced agreement.
madam president, the netherlands, my member state, is a centuries-old trading nation and the commissioner will have to acknowledge this, because we have even formed one country together. dutch companies are among the largest investors worldwide. the netherlands has therefore concluded 98 bilateral investment treaties with a very high level of protection. the proposed authorization system gives the commission too many powers to withhold its approval of existing investment agreements and too little certainty for existing agreements. the imminent possibility that member states may have to terminate their existing bilateral investment treaties at the instigation of the commission before a new agreement with an equivalent level of protection is concluded by the eu is unacceptable. the withdrawal of authorisation may only take place if the eu has negotiated a new agreement with the same level of protection.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - madam president, the european development fund has been criticised in the past by the court of auditors for having to invest more in controlling expenditure. the first step in this direction must be the eu delegations in the developing countries. they are the closest to the projects concerned. in recent years, the european commission has taken important steps to improve controls, particularly in the area of budget support and expenditure in fragile states. better cooperation and coordination between member states on development policy could also save 6 billion. but that requires strong eu delegations that can take on roles and responsibilities and ensure the quality of spending. ironically, it is often the same parties that are screaming murder and arson about fraud and at the same time refusing to spend money on stronger management of the eu delegations. if we really want those delegations to prevent development money from falling into the wrong hands or money from leaking into failed projects, then the eu delegations need more staff. that is why this choice must be made in the external policy budget for the coming years. i am curious to see the commission's response to some of the comments in the excellent report by mr staes. my group fully supports his conclusions. but what is going to happen to improve ex-ante control? how is the improvement of management of the implementing organisations monitored? what is the commission doing to further increase the capacity of recipient countries and regional organisations and what is needed for this? in the future, eu development policy should spend more on funds that provide access to financial services, funds for microfinance. plenty of people with dreams and capabilities in poor countries. they must be given the opportunity to build their own livelihoods with small loans. the edf can also contribute to this. finally, the european development fund naturally belongs within the european budget under democratic control, but this must not lead to a reduction in the overall development cooperation budget.
i would like to thank mr chatzimarkakis and all the other rapporteurs for their excellent work. i would also like to thank the council and the president of the court of auditors in particular for their presence here, although it is strange that we should have to stress this. but thank you for that. mr president, this year's discharge comes at an important time for two reasons. the first reason is that all the member states are facing very large cuts. the second reason is that we are on the eve of adopting the new multiannual budget. i think both these reasons emphasize that we must be extra critical of this discharge and that we must be extra critical of european spending. i believe that this is a question of both the legitimacy and the effectiveness of european spending, because european citizens have a right to the fact that european investment is actually making a profit. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to ask you to name one local, provincial, regional or national democratic representation where there is no such political accountability of expenditure. why then do we not have that at european level? why is 80% of expenditure still not politically accountable to the member states? once again, i call on the council: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. as far as i am concerned, there will be no new multiannual budget from 2014 onwards as long as that member state declaration is not in place. the present situation also forces us to be extra critical of parliament's own budget. i am very pleased with the savings we have found, even if they coincide with sustainability. we're going to use our air miles for business now, we're going to address paper consumption. all of them are excellent proposals. i just want to make one thing clear: from september we will be able to use not only cars but also bicycles and through you, madam vice-president, i would like to invite mr buzek to officially put this bicycle into service in september.
madam president, the rapporteur, mr chatzimarkakis, and many other speakers have rightly stressed the need for statements by the member states. it is a bit like asking the council and the member states for a favour. i think that's a misunderstanding. that is why i welcome the council's presence here this morning. perhaps it would be good for the council to read over again what exactly is said in the interinstitutional agreement concluded when we approved the financial perspective for this period. it was then clearly stated that the council would make these declarations at the most appropriate political level. it is a pity that the council does not respect the agreements. but there was something to the contrary, and it is perhaps worth recalling this now that we are negotiating new financial perspectives. there was a difference of opinion between the council and parliament on the level of the financial perspective. the difference was about 112 billion over a seven-year period. parliament went back to 110 billion. in return, we wanted some things that didn't cost money. membership declarations and political accountability do not cost money. the council signed off on that. but what do we find four years later? four member states are complying with the agreement and the other member states are not. that does not bode well for the forthcoming negotiations. we must be in favour of the signature, even if austria was represented in the council at the time. so i think it is essential that the action programme now agreed is actually implemented, because otherwise it is also bad for the negotiations on the new financial perspective. finally, a word on a general matter. i thought this was the seventeenth time that the european court of auditors has not issued a statement of assurance. it will be difficult to maintain the discharge from parliament year after year in the light of the forthcoming european elections. there's got to be a positive das sometime.
madam president, it seems that a new rule has been introduced in europe: in case of doubt, create an agency. today we are discussing the reports of no less than 39 agencies and parliament is deciding whether to grant discharge for 2009. as far as my group is concerned, absolutely not. the pvv is against these money-wasting monsters that have no demonstrable use. there is a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions alone swallow hundreds of millions of euros and have no influence on policy. they're just chat rooms where gallons of coffee go through the floor, resulting in an immeasurable pile of reports that no dog can read. so, mr president, we have no excuse except for the general conclusion that there is so much wrong with the agencies, so much so that we should abolish them as soon as possible.
mr president, eurobarometer shows that enthusiasm for the european union has been declining for years. only five member states have a majority who view the european union positively. the citizens equate europe with a waste of money. we must take these objections very seriously and mr itälä does so, and rightly so. he said it was irresponsible to have this parliament meet in two places. i couldn't agree more. i say to mr sarkozy: we must get rid of this parliament's back and forth. we also need to account for our own general expenses. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. it's got to be different. the honourable member rightly recommends in paragraph 5 that we take appropriate measures to ensure that our general expenditure is reimbursed. i hope that paragraph will remain in the report because that is good for credibility and transparency.
in writing. - i do not support the discharge to be given to the european commission and the other institutions and bodies. the main reason for this is that the error rate remains too high. the report on the european commission by rapporteur chatzimarkakis is an excellent indication of the concerns. the committee on budgets does not, however, conclude that the granting of discharge should be postponed. this is the very means of putting pressure on the european commission and the member states to make improvements. for example, the national management declarations. these help to improve shared management, including the structural funds. another major pain point is the many complex rules on the structural funds and research grants. that is why i tabled an amendment to the garriga polledo report in the temporary committee on the budgetary challenges. it called on the european commission to accompany each proposal with an impact assessment. this impact assessment should be carried out independently, not by the european commission itself. in conclusion, the reduction of regulatory burdens and the national management declarations should lead to a reduction in the number of errors in financial management. the european parliament is giving up its main instrument for this purpose by granting discharge. the chatzimarkakis report deserved better than that.
i think it is mr borghezio of the epp group who should speak first.
we have one european asylum and immigration policy, one and the same appalling policy for the whole of the eu. the recent disastrous flows of migrants from north africa and the thunder of the failed schengen treaty show that asylum and immigration policies must be returned to the member states. one member state is simply not the other. one general european policy will not work. president, commissioner malmström's proposal on schengen is a weak one. it is a travesty that it states that member states cannot decide to carry out border checks and, if necessary, to close their borders. the member states are suffering from tens of thousands of disadvantaged migrants from north africa, but malmström said they should do nothing about it. boats still arrive in lampedusa with migrants looking for their fortune. the migration crisis is still raging. but no, said commissioner malmström, the member states must not shy away from this. instead, she is waving something about solidarity. unfortunately, mr president, the member states are no longer in control of their own affairs. europe is the boss. the member states want those powers back. the member states must be able to determine their own asylum and migration policies. what is the commission going to do about it?
the question of the blue card to van der stoep. i would like to ask mr van der stoep the following question: what is mr van der stoep going to say to the dutch people who are returning from two weeks' holiday in france and want to cross the border between antwerp and hazeldonk and find themselves in a huge traffic jam on their way home, the same traffic jam that is facing the lorry drivers who are on their way to the port of rotterdam to unload or load their cargo, should border checks be reintroduced?
mr president, mrs sargentini knows very well that we are not in favour of new customs gates; the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and has been very active in the fight against fraud. at one point we were going over our own borders and what you are overlooking is the fact that there are now 25,000 economic refugees in italy who are getting visas. they're economic refugees. they must return to their country as soon as possible. they shouldn't have even been in court. the pvv has always been very clear on this, we do not want those gates back, but we simply want to be able to determine our own asylum and migration policy, and you know that very well.
madam president, i was elected to the european parliament by the citizens of europe in june 2009. i was not elected to a parliament of the institutions, nor to a parliament of individual member states. i say that because there are many questions among european citizens about schengen. it's not about populism, it's not about fear. these are questions from the european citizens. how are we dealing with schengen? there are a lot of questions at the moment. that is why i am asking for attention. of course, when the president of the commission says that the principle of free movement of persons must be upheld, i support that. the european union must not allow itself to be held hostage by 25 000 tunisians to 502 million europeans, but the questions remain and the support for schengen in europe is in danger. that is why i can also agree to temporary possibilities for border controls, as my colleague mr iacolino says. i understand that the burden sharing cannot be achieved in one go. in conclusion, mr president, i have a question for you. what progress has been made with the launch of the european asylum support office in malta? i hear that's still a long way from being done. perhaps the commissioner could explain again when the bureau will actually start.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank everyone for the pleasant cooperation we have had, and in particular all the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to thank the commission for the way in which we have worked together. i would also like to thank the council, because thanks to the hungarian presidency i believe we have come out of the impasse on this subject. i am particularly pleased that this is a regulation and not a directive. i believe that regulations can bring about the completion of the internal market, as professor monti has also made clear in his research. we are making too much legislation which is being implemented at different levels, which is not making the internal market work. i am glad that it is on the table in this case and we have therefore made some improvements. the proposal was discussed in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection; the original proposal barely mentioned the consumer. we as politicians felt that we should also take the interests of consumers into account in this report and we have done so. there are a number of points which are important. i am thinking particularly of research into allergic reactions. the commission has indicated that it is prepared to investigate these important points. it will present that study by 30 september 2013 and incorporate the positive results of that study into additional legislation. the council has stated that it will consider taking part in this if the result is positive and feasible. allergic reactions, chemicals, we're seeing more and more consumers who are allergic to wearing clothes and eating or smelling or inhaling products; we think it is necessary to consider whether it is possible to warn consumers about this. there are also very often deceptive commercial practices. in fact, they have been banned in the european union since 2005, but we see that there is too little clarity as to the country of origin with the made in label. there is too little legislation, and that means that it is often abused; we have also asked the commission to examine whether it is possible to draw up clear legislation and conditions to ensure that producers who say that a product is made in the netherlands, italy or germany guarantee that it is actually made there and not 99% in china and only the last operations have been carried out in one of the european member states, so that 'made in europe' is written on the label. for example, in the area of counterfeiting. what i am pleased about is that we are opening the door to modern techniques, not just to the simple old-fashioned piece of textile label in a textile product, but that we are also starting to investigate whether it is possible to use modern techniques to inform the consumer as much as possible. the council has already agreed to the labelling of products of animal origin, because it is becoming increasingly difficult to tell whether fur is genuine or fake and there are many consumers who consider this important. the european commission's forthcoming study will aim in particular to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market and to respond to developments in the field of electronic commerce; i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report, which is a very good report. i hope that this study will shed some light on this. i also think that in the modern world, there is no need to put 23 languages on a label. modern techniques can improve this. i hope that the council statement tomorrow will be positive and give confidence in a good result and i thank everyone who has contributed to the good result.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. that was never the intention of this proposal either, but it is the intention that the consumer should be adequately informed and that the correct information should be provided with modern techniques. i also find it a little bit silly for some members to say that the first reading was over and we are now going through with it, because we know in this house that if we go through with it and want something that the council and the commission do not want, then nothing will happen. it's very easy to shout that now, but i think this is the right way. i have seen how strongly mr tajani has supported our compromise and i call on minister györi to persuade the council in the same strong way to accept and incorporate into legislation the positive elements which the study will produce. if that happens, mr president, i think we can show that we are making legislation that is good for our industry, for our consumers and also for us, because we have to maintain our support in europe. i thank everyone for their support and again, mr tajani, thank you for your support and i hope that the outcome of the inquiry will be forthcoming soon and i hope that the president of the council will succeed in convincing the council that we are doing things in a good way. i think, mr president, that the future will show that the path we are taking now will be a model, an example for many sectors, a path worth following. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the european bank stress test which will take place in june, because last year's stress test was incredible and its consequences were painfully clear when the irish banks which had passed the test soon afterwards ran into serious problems. that's gonna have to change this year. the question is whether our financial sector is up to the challenge. this knowledge is important to restore confidence in the financial sector. that is why i ask the commissioner: what are the main changes that will ensure that the failure of last year's stress test is not repeated this year? last year, mr president, each country was able to decide which banks would be stress tested, but this year the newly created european banking authority must ensure that the criteria are the same for each bank and for each member state. the credibility of the new supervisory structure is also tested by this stress test. is the commission satisfied that the stress test covers 85% of the number of banks in some countries, but barely more than 50% of the banking sector in others? that is a curious fact, so i am curious to hear your explanation on that point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the epp wants to encourage you to come up with ambitious proposals and you can count on our support here in this parliament.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in the palestinian territories. what position will the european union, through its members, the united kingdom and france, take in the security council in september in the face of the palestinian authority's unilateral attempt to establish a palestinian state, apart from the peace process with israel? this question, madam high representative, is all the more pressing now that fatah and hamas last week restored palestinian unity in complete disregard of the conditions imposed by the parties, including the european union, on any palestinian government. recognition of the state of israel, renunciation of violence and terrorism, compliance with previous obligations. in the meantime, hamas is openly showing its place on the european union's terror list. hence my pressing question: how will the european union apply the own-quarter principles in this new situation? business as usual with ramallah implies in any case abandoning these basic peace principles; the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east.
president, honourable members, allow me to begin by congratulating you on your success in new york. it is good that europe's role in the un has been strengthened. but there are some questions that come to mind. what is our, what is your message to the general assembly? how can you bring the member states into line without reaching the lowest common denominator? what concrete action - you asked mr daul - will we then take to put our message into practice? mr president, we all face enormous challenges to which we must find answers. these challenges are not only in bahrain, yemen, iran or armenia, but also in our immediate neighbourhood: the eu has a long-term strategy for the region. these challenges are very concrete. there is oppression, war, violence against religious minorities, refugees are coming to us, and the building of a state based on the rule of law and democracy is slowly beginning. mrs. ashton, you are our figurehead. you are the face of the eu. we cannot afford to remain divided and indecisive as the european union today. you play a crucial role, both formally and informally. not just behind the scenes, but in the boardrooms and out there, especially out there. i know, i realise that you have to walk on eggshells, but know that we in the european parliament support you as you continue to convince the member states that a common european approach is worthwhile, as you continue to work towards an effective, coherent and common foreign policy and to be the face of it, as you continue to put the best people in the best positions in external action, as you continue to strengthen the position of europe and also that of the citizens concerned. so do more of it. do more in syria and don't go for half-baked solutions.
president, mrs ashton, we are seeing a great threat emerging in the middle east, we are seeing structural backwardness and discrimination against christians in various islamic countries. the christian community in iraq has already more than halved. we see the same thing happening in egypt. the copts' ancient community is under attack, there are numerous daily harassments, forced marriages, and the building of churches is virtually impossible. last february, i received 60 heads here and they were screaming for help. that is why i have two proposals for you, mrs ashton. make the heads the top priority in your policy. their systematic discrimination must be stopped. secondly, on 20 january we called here for an eu strategy on religious freedom and for the continuous monitoring of that policy. will you please realize that? i'd like your reaction. thank you for your patience.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) mr president, we have agreed a joint statement with the council; minister györi, who was able to speak here last night, has asked me to read it to you because she is bothered by her vote. it 's four rules: joint statement by the european parliament and the council. the european parliament and the council are mindful of the importance of providing accurate information to consumers, in particular when products are marketed with an indication of origin so as to protect them against fraudulent, inaccurate or misleading claims. the use of new technologies such as electronic labelling, including radio frequency identification, may be a useful tool to provide such information while keeping pace with technical development. the european parliament and the council invite the commission, when drawing up the report pursuant to article 24a of the regulation, to consider their impact on possible new labelling requirements including with a view to improving the traceability of textile products. that's all and now the minister will nod i hope.
in writing. the pvv votes against this recommendation of the european parliament. the original commission proposal sought to simplify formalities in order to facilitate the introduction of new textile fibres. the european parliament is also proposing that companies be required in future to indicate the country of origin of a textile product, the so-called 'country of origin' label. we do not support this position of parliament. consumers benefit from information on labels on materials that pose a danger to public health or that cause allergic reactions. the mention of the country of origin on the label is a useless european gesture. the origin of a product says almost nothing about the production process or the quality of the product, and it does not contribute to consumer protection. even when the so-called country of origin is mentioned, parts of the production process may still take place elsewhere. the 'made in label' only creates a false sense of clarity for the consumer, while it does bring additional costs and red tape. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the pvv will therefore vote against this recommendation.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all my colleagues in parliament and the delegation for the unanimous support i have received up to the end of the negotiations. i also have a lot of admiration for the hungarian ambassador who has really done her best, as has mr dalli, by the way. it is a pity that we have not reached agreement on the question of cloning. the consumer can still have cloned products on his plate unsolicited and unmarked, while 77% of european citizens do not want that. council, a ban on cloning alone is symbolic politics. what this is about is a ban on the offspring. the clones are so expensive, you're not gonna make a hamburger out of them. so we could not reach a compromise on that. the council and the commission have always said that a ban on offspring could not be allowed under the wto rules. mr de gucht added to that by saying in parliament that a trade war would arise. i was surprised, however, to receive an internal secret document from the council which clearly states - it is from the legal service of the council of ministers - that a ban on cloning of offspring is indeed defensible under wto rules. it says clearly: the bans [on] food from cloned animals and [...] food from offspring of clones could be justified on the basis of the consumers ethical considerations ... i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. i have a question for the council: was this document known to all member states? if so, why is the argument of global trade wars used all the time to prevent a compromise with parliament? i am very, very curious to know what the real underlying reasons have been. if this document was not known to the negotiators of the member states, that would be a scandal in my view. if it was known, the arguments were wrong. mr. dalli, the citizen is waiting for you. i think we need to have regulation very quickly. you know i'm still willing to cooperate and i'm sure we can work something out. i will pass the document on to the council.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank minister kármán and commissioner rehn for their explanations, because what have we seen in the last few weeks? if market confidence is weak, any trace of doubt has direct consequences for the countries already in difficulty and therefore for the euro as a whole. unfortunately, as we found out last weekend, denying in the press that a secret meeting is taking place is going to do double damage to the already fragile trust. i hope that those involved will learn from this very soon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the aid measures for greece, ireland and portugal must be robust in order to restore financial and economic stability. the package should pave the way for sustainable public finances and economic growth. i would therefore call on the council and the commission to look beyond the financing needs of these countries in the coming year to avoid the same problems in a year's time. it is important, mr president, to decide in june on an ambitious package of legislation to strengthen economic governance in europe in order to regain the confidence of the markets and also to ensure growth and jobs for all our citizens and to increase the cohesion of our economies. i would therefore call on the council to support parliament's ambition, more accountability and public debate in this parliament, more involvement of national parliaments, no back and forth in the council if the commission's opinion is not to your liking; the package must include a strong economic leg in addition to a strong monetary leg, including the europe 2020 strategy to ensure the sustainability of our social market economy for all our 27 member states; i therefore call on you to show your determination at the ecofin next week. the president agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8)).
i have a question for you, mr president, mrs wortmann-kool. how is it that you, as a dutch member of parliament, do not agree with the scandal that our dutch finance minister was not invited to that summit last week? how is it that you, as a dutch member of parliament, do not even mention this when the netherlands is paying so much and how is it that you are completely squandering the interests of the dutch taxpayer by pouring billions of taxpayers' money into a bottomless pit?
mr president, i have made it clear what is needed to restore confidence; mr madlener's simple solutions will not only put the dutch citizen, but the citizens in all our member states, in a worse rather than a better position. i'm really sorry that mr. madlener still doesn't get it.
mrs figueiredo, i am afraid i have cut off your microphone. i apologise for this but you went quite over time. you do have a chance, however, for another 30 seconds if you agree to answer a blue-card question by mr van dalen.
i would ask mrs figueiredo: if it's all so bad what's happening to your country, and if it's all so bad that you're now going to be under a real regime where you have to restructure your entire economy, why don't you leave the eurozone? the euro is a strong currency and it must mean something. if that bothers you, you should just go!
mr president, first of all i have a question for commissioner rehn: how is it possible, mr rehn, that the eurogroup, led by mr juncker, held a summit meeting and that our dutch finance minister was not present? how can that be? it is a gross scandal that the netherlands, as one of the biggest contributors to all the bailouts, was not even invited to that meeting. mr rehn, can you promise me here that you will make sure that this never happens again? ladies and gentlemen, greece will either leave the euro or restructure its debts, that is inevitable, but the question is when? what i think and what i fear is that this will happen when all the guarantees and all the money have been paid to greece and that would be the biggest fraud of the century. mr rehn, can you give me an assurance that the scenario where greece first refinances its debts with dutch taxpayers' money and then leaves the euro and cancels its debts is not going to happen? we can 't trust these greeks . the greek politicians who, together with the european commission, committed fraud by introducing the euro with false figures, are now mainly busy raising their own salaries. these are politicians we cannot trust, so how can you guarantee, mr rehn, that the dutch taxpayer will not be cheated out of his money again? the president agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8)).
mr president, mr goebbels, you should know that the netherlands owes its good position to hard work and to a sound financial system. did you know that the netherlands has been the largest net contributor to this european union for many years and did you know that the greeks have been the largest recipient of money from the netherlands for many years? what did it lead to? until the crisis in greece. this is a misuse of dutch taxpayers' money. it's a shame you don't realize that.
mr president, thank you very much for your willingness and tolerance. i have a question for mr toussas. mr toussas knows exactly what is wrong, what is wrong with this system and what is very wrong with what is happening in europe and in the countries. my question is: what's the alternative? do you want to go back to the communist welfare state, as in north korea, cuba or other dictatorships? is that the solution we should go back to, would you like that?
the present approach to the debt crisis, mr president, is adding to the problems. greece, portugal and ireland are offered a debt settlement, but their debt is increasing, not decreasing. this approach is disastrous, it's debt solving with more debt. president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. this can be done by restructuring the public debt, thereby partially remitting debt. this is combined with the requirements of a strengthened stability and growth pact, including automatic sanctions, to be maintained. of course, that's a hard approach that will cause a shake-out with banks, some pension funds and bondholders, but we have to get through it. it's not gonna be fun without pain. the cancellation of the national debt, combined with the strict requirements to be maintained, will open up a new future. if we don't, there's only one future: weak countries out of the euro area.
- i'm the reporter. - president, commissioner, you are an innovator, i am an innovator, we are innovators, we can all be innovators. how can we be? as a researcher, as a scientist, as a policymaker, as an employee in the workplace, as a consumer, as a citizen. the citizen is at the heart of innovation. he makes or breaks innovation. but what can we do as policymakers, as politicians, to accelerate that innovation? innovation is the way out of the financial and economic crisis, because innovation is going to solve the problems we all face, such as ageing, climate change, the scarcity of raw materials, and it will also put an end to the financial and economic crisis right away. we hope that innovation will bring all of these together, give the economy a big boost, and in the meantime move towards that sustainable society. but that's gonna take some doing. it is a question of a change of mindset, a change of ideas about society and how we should operate in politics and business. what concrete measures could we take? more focus and less fragmentation. we need to get rid of this compartmentalized spirit of innovation and policy. what are we trying to achieve? innovation is not just a matter of one box, one department, one programme, innovation has to be something that runs right through the whole policy. so that must be the mindset of politics. preferably a holistic approach. why do we have all these programs? throw them together where you can and start simplifying things for once. that is our job as politicians. cut the red tape. we as politicians always tend, when we want to achieve something, to add a layer on top, an extra regulation, an extra programme, an extra funding option. perhaps the solution here is not "extra", but rather "less" or "instead of". so less control in the funding applications and what is very important: let us provide services to those who come to us for funding, for incentives, a one-stop shop, a one-stop shop for applicants, for start-ups, for smes, possibly also for regions and research institutions. the evaluation will therefore not only look at the funding request but also, if appropriate, at appropriate partners or networks for cooperation. we need much more risk capital and we really need to raise 5 billion in the next financial period instead of 1 billion, because that is what gives the banks a boost in lending to smes. we need a cheap and simple patent, workable rules to protect intellectual property. a genuine european single market where innovation can thrive by gaining access to a market of 500 million citizens. it's way too compartmentalized right now. until now, innovation has been seen mainly as a high-tech product. it's not that, it could be social innovation. europe has for years been struggling with an outflow of innovation refugees, creative people who prefer to go to the united states, because they think it's easier there, and frankly, sometimes it is. tight personal liability rules, lack of financial support and high barriers to entry into the european market are all barriers that have prevented innovation from being a great success in europe to date. the eu must have the courage to reward, not punish, courage, enterprise, curiosity and creativity. we need european steve jobs; let's find out what we're good at, let's bring together in europe that spirit of inquiry, einstein, and steve jobs.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speech. how do you think we can achieve these ambitions in the context of the innovation union in all the work we do in itre, in all the other documents that are coming, in the common strategy framework, in all the research funds, in the next programmes? how can the commission ensure that there is a single red line across all these policies, so that we actually achieve the objectives set out in this innovation union?
the challenge, mr president, commissioner, is to do things differently, much less fragmented, much less layered, member states, the european union, and also to invest in a much better way. i think that is what the companies and the citizens are waiting for. the report and your proposal for the innovation union are raising expectations. we can expect a lot from it, but i would like to make a few points, particularly with regard to the instrumental side, including the european union. firstly, we must make it easier to obtain financing and we must increase subsidies and incentives for risk capital. secondly, we still have all these funds with their own rules and walls between them, the regional funds, the agricultural funds, etc. we need to move to a multi-fund approach. will you now bring that up in the regulations to come? what kind of proposals do you put in there? another point: we have just seen that the investments in r & d are largely concentrated in the 12 old member states and that this is indeed a matter of further distribution. we need to move to a different balance. how can you help businesses and citizens in the 'new' member states to do this? and finally, this: it's a process, we'd like to think with you. how do you conduct the dialogue now? your communication says you're going to come back with a convention at the end of 2011 and some more activity. i have already had the opportunity to speak to you several times, also in the form of a dialogue, at the knowledge for innovation summits in this house. how will you organise this? we want to see more of you. i have a lot of faith in it, by the way. you are coordinating things in the commission now, and that was not the case in the past; mrs. merkies and i will be following you very closely.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank colleagues and innovative citizens for all their very valuable contributions. it was a very inclusive process. we are in unison here: we want to boost economic growth and move towards a different, sustainable social model. we want to stimulate smes and start-ups; we want to update our skills in lifelong learning; we want social innovation. we want the money actually to be spent on research and development, not to be kept in the pocket. we agree that research is not a synonym for innovation; innovation stands on its own, though it might derive from research. both are extremely important, but innovation needs to get an extra push. to clear up the issue of funding coming from the agricultural funds or the structural funds: the intention is not that we move funding from the cap or the structural funds to the innovation funds, but that we pay attention to the horizontal aspect of innovation. we need innovation in agriculture and in regional policy too: we need it everywhere. so where do we go from here? let us not end with this one report. we cannot let it end here. let us take this onwards, together with the member states. let us really try to get a different mindset. let us spend the money, but let us change the policy. let us change our economic model, move towards a sustainable model and create jobs. the report said that innovation is not only a product, process or service, but also a movement. so let us be innovators here today. let us start a movement: a movement for innovation.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my country, the netherlands, is the world champion. unfortunately not in football, which we failed to do last year, but the netherlands is world champion in the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. no country in the world uses as many antibiotics in livestock farming as the netherlands. this has very big implications, not just the dutch practice; in europe, as other colleagues have already said, 25 000 people die every year from bacterial infections. it enters humans through the flesh. 90% of chicken meat in the netherlands contains resistant esbl bacteria, and last month it was even reported that resistant bacteria were found in vegetables, which are transmitted through manure and soil. mr president, this really needs to change. a country like denmark has shown that it is possible, that with good, strict measures with much less antibiotics, to maintain a healthy and strong livestock sector. the european commission has already indicated, and will do so again tonight, that it will come forward with further measures in november. more concrete results will follow in 2012. i would call on the commission to give this problem a real high degree of urgency and not to leave it to the member states who are too slow to take the right measures.
rapporteur. − mr president, before highlighting a few elements of this elaborate report on the role of culture in the eu’s external actions, i want to sincerely thank my colleagues from the committee on culture and education for their constructive collaboration and for unanimously adopting our joint work in the committee vote. of course civil society and other stakeholders have also provided very helpful input. culture has intrinsic value in our liberal democracies. it enriches peoples’ lives. the eu is well known for its cultural diversity and at the same time it is a community of values which apply equally to each citizen. these european values, such as respect for human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms, are also represented by our cultural products. cultural identity, values and the eu’s position on the global stage are intertwined. european interests are served when cultural aspects are strategically devised through cooperation and partnership, both through cultural programmes and when cultural aspects form an integral part of economic, foreign and security and development policies. through the sharing of literature, film, music and heritage, doors of understanding are opened and bridges between people are built. the eu also has important experiences to share when it comes to overcoming conflict and building stability through shared interests and mutual understanding. in the development of the external action service it is important to mainstream and streamline the role culture has, and should have, in the eu’s external actions. it should be a vital and horizontally integrated element among the broad spectrum of external policies which make up the eu’s foreign policy, from trade relations to its enlargement and neighbourhood policy and its development cooperation and common foreign and security policy. culture also has economic value. europe’s cultural industries contribute to european entrepreneurship, innovation and business, and the eu’s diverse cultural landscape makes it the most attractive tourist destination in the world. knowledge and international skills are crucial to education and employment, as indicated in the eu 2020 strategy, but culture can also be considered as a vehicle which helps to foster democratisation, freedom of expression, inclusion, development, education, reconciliation and much else. this very wide variety of aspects of cultural relations vis-à-vis third countries has led to a fragmentation of policies, which needs to change to a more coordinated and coherent eu strategy. we have chosen to emphasise the organisational and policy frameworks that are needed for the optimal coordination of culture in the eu’s external actions. the filling in of such content should not be governed and regulated to too great an extent ‘from the top down’. european citizens are best able to benefit if the eu acts as a global player on the world stage. this requires funds to be used more efficiently, and we have to be aware of europe’s competitive position and the struggle to attract tourists, talent, artists, business and students. we must speak with one voice and be aware of the competition from cultural programmes by china and the united states, to name just two. but there is no need to reinvent the wheel. the eu has a number of best practices from the member states, as well as from different cultural institutions such as the alliance française and the british council. another aspect that is very prominent in our 21st century is the ever-larger role played by the new technologies, both in culture and in international relations. people depend increasingly on the internet for access to information and can only express themselves freely when this information, and their communications, are not censored. the right to cultural development and other fundamental rights is increasingly facilitated by these technologies. access to cultural content happens through new media as well, and the opportunities for global connectivity around european cultural goods and content should be celebrated and facilitated, for example through europeana or websites of museums and festivals. it is important that the eu develop a strategy for internet freedom. i will come back to some of the concrete recommendations of this report in the last part of my intervention.
mr president, ‘if you want to know where hell is, ask the artist, and if you cannot find the artist you know you are in hell’. i think this quote, which i found by an anonymous author in sarajevo, summarises the importance of arts and culture not only for open societies but also for our relations with the rest of the world. bosnia and herzegovina, with sarajevo as its capital, belongs to one of the black holes on the european map, and this is due to our history. now, however, we have to look to the future. the people of sarajevo have come close to knowing hell, especially during the siege of that city, and arts and culture have helped people there to survive. the orchestra rehearsed while the city was being shelled, and the winter festival full of arts and culture continued. saravejo deserves a european spring. the next generation suffers from the wounds of history, and we have an important responsibility as europeans to look to the future with them and to include them in the european horizon. i fully support ms pack’s initiative and i want to ask parliament to support it and to do everything we can to include sarajevo as a european cultural capital. i believe that, if we all want this, it absolutely can be possible, because it would be very disappointing if our ideas and commonsense were to be blocked by bureaucracy.
mr president, in 2014 it will be 100 years since the murder of archduke franz ferdinand, which triggered the start of the first world war. it was also in bosnia and herzegovina that we had a bloody war in europe in the 1990s. it is important to mark those tragic events, which led to many deaths, suffering, division and horrors, but it is even more important to mark and celebrate european unity and peace today. sarajevo is a city which, despite everything that happened, has maintained its multicultural spirit and strength. in order to recognise this, it would be a strong symbolic gesture to name sarajevo european capital of culture 2014, to reaffirm europe’s message of peace and stability. it is a pity to miss out on this historic momentum by turning to the rules. it is only when we deal with our past, when we recognise and face history, that we can look openly to the future, so please give sarajevo this possibility.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am coming back to you with some concrete next steps on the report on the role of culture in the eu’s external actions that we talked about this morning. i want to start with a quote from a hungarian diplomat in the united states, mr simonyi, who said that ‘rock and roll, culturally speaking, was a decisive element in loosening up communist societies and bringing them closer to the world of freedom’. when we look, in particular, at today’s uprisings of the young generation in north africa and the middle east, we can see that, today, an open internet is that decisive element for moving into the world of freedom. we need an internet freedom strategy to facilitate free expression, press freedom, access to information and access to cultural and educational content. this is a priority, but there are many more concrete suggestions in the report, for which the foundations are already laid down in both the lisbon treaty and the ratification of the unesco conventions. they now need practical implementation. the external action service should coordinate the work of different directorates-general, and create a directorate-general for cultural and digital diplomacy. eeas staff should be trained, and a cultural attaché is needed in each eu representation. there needs to be coordination, streamlining and mainstreaming through an interinstitutional taskforce which should report back to the european parliament. we ask the commission to adopt a green paper in 2011, followed by a communication on a strategy for cultural cooperation in the eu’s external actions. we also call for capacity-building through the funding of initiatives independent of government, and we want to promote eu cultural activities in the rest of the world on line also. existing programmes, such as the european neighbourhood policy and the european instrument for democracy and human rights, have cultural components which need to be coordinated and strategically deployed. we also need to protect and promote cultural heritage, such as through the blue shield programme, and we need to engage in cultural policy dialogues with third countries. human rights should be respected, and cultural arguments can never be used to justify violations of human rights. i would recommend that colleagues read the report. i think that this debate shows that we need many more discussions on culture in the eu.
author. − mr president, while we welcome the release from prison of adnan hajizade and emin milli, the good news about azerbaijan ends about there. the european parliament is very concerned about the massive crackdown on freedom of expression and assembly carried out in azerbaijan following the peaceful protest against the government in march and april of this year. young people, civil society activists, media professionals and opposition politicians are being harassed and intimidated. some demonstrators have been sentenced in mass trials which took place late at night and while people did not have access to a lawyer. most of these lawyers, in turn, were not informed of the locations where the trials were being held. the human rights house of azerbaijan has been closed down by order of the ministry of justice. this climate of fear and intimidation and the breaches of human rights must end. the azerbaijani government is losing its credibility by breaching conventions it has itself signed up to, such as the council of europe and the european convention on human rights. we want president aliyev to keep his word. europe also loses credibility if we do not act upon these breaches. they should have real consequences for the relations between the eu and azerbaijan.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr leinen, for his report. after many years of pushing and pulling, we finally seem to be taking that step towards sustainable national accounts and that is sorely needed, because let's be very honest the economic system we have right now simply doesn't work. the damage to the environment and nature can still be done at virtually no cost. so the system is broken. those costs that nobody pays, they're passed on to society. why is renewable energy more expensive than conventional energy? because the social costs of the loss of coal and gas and oil are not paid by anyone. this may seem like a very technical report, but in the end, it's about really important things. we say in english that measuring is knowing, and that is what this is all about. these european environmental economic accounts are necessary for the transition to a truly sustainable economy. i would like to ask the commission and the member states to do something about the data that is being collected. measurement is knowing, that's very important, but using the knowledge we gain from that is much more important, and that's the essential next step. i very much hope that this will lead, for example, to the elimination of the hundreds of billions in subsidies which are still having a detrimental effect on nature and the environment in the world. i would like to thank the committee and our rapporteur once again. this is just the beginning, however. and then let's really take the steps that the knowledge that this brings makes possible.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). we now know better, because we have painfully experienced our international connections during the crisis. it is precisely in times of crisis that we learn to look out for one another and we have seen how crucial the role and expertise of the imf is, also and even for us in europe. it is therefore also important that the imf plays a key role in the coming years in terms of global governance, in terms of improving financial and monetary stability in the world. unfortunately, we have had a lot of painful experiences in this euro crisis. you can already feel where i'm going. today we're talking about the new candidate for the future post of imf director. you are right to say that it should be an open procedure, but we do not need to hide under chairs or benches that we, europe, have an excellent candidate. i am glad that we in parliament can express our support for this in this debate. it is important in a time of crisis to have a highly qualified woman in this top position. because the feminine qualities in times of crisis can really add value, complemented by quality. ms lagarde also has experience on both sides of the ocean and in multilateral governance. from that perspective, she's an excellent candidate. i hope that with this support we can also give you a little extra support to advocate that mrs lagarde should be the successor and future director of the imf.
president, rapporteur, commissioner, it is good to look back now and then, especially in the middle of such a period and just before the adoption of the financial framework and the legislative tasks of parliament. what is striking is that scientific research in europe is of the highest quality. the problem is to turn it into products and organize the whole chain. of course, it doesn't make much sense if we generate a huge number of patents, sell them around the world and if the added value of that goes to other parts of the world. we need to be so restrained, so trained, that the whole process happens here. a second point: on the one hand, it is about excellence, but on the other hand, excellence must stand on two legs and not be free floating intelligent. excellence must take up posts in regions and cities. it cannot be that you have this high added value only in metropolitan regions. it is our task as a parliament to combine what research produces with what it can do in terms of innovation. you have formulated your own innovation union, very good initiatives, and then we can use those various other funds, such as the structural funds, for that. we have to apply conditionality in the coming years. in this sense, we must also ensure that regions which are lagging behind invest in specialisation. it is possible to do so, not only with european money, but with the member state's own money. this is how you create a single common agenda and in this context, tools such as joint programming are also of great importance. two more little dots. firstly, we must certainly continue with risk-taking facilities. this initiative, the eib's risk charging finance facility, has worked extremely well. and secondly, of course, mrs cavalho, you did very well. there's less red tape. now, give room to those jtis, where the corporate sector is 50% involved. and we're treating it like it's an official organization! it can't work. i thank you for this interim report. it is very important and we will put it in a new perspective when we adopt the regulations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his presence here, but i would have preferred him to be elsewhere. on the plane to russia, for example, to advocate at the highest level that the ban that russia has now put in place be repealed because it has been fully overruled. i thank the commissioner for communicating with us now, but communication, including from the european commission, has so far failed disgracefully. it was only days after the crisis had broken out that the commissioner held a press conference. but by then, the spirit was long out of the bottle, and the wildest stories were circulating in the media. the commissioner spoke of a possible source on dutch cucumbers, whereas days earlier more than 200 tests had shown that there was nothing wrong. i agree with you: the technical side of the story, which works. rapid alert, tracking and tracing, all working. but there's also the communication side of this whole thing, and it's a lousy one. first of all, of course, in germany, where so many different institutions, governments and even several ministers all send different signals. a minister of agriculture who makes a nonsensical remark about 'no more raw food at all' when she has no authority to do so! i assume you will address this to germany, because there will have to be a thorough investigation into how this could have gone so badly. i hope that you will also be calling on the agriculture ministers to set up an emergency fund to be financed from the margin still available in the agricultural budget. as we did with dairy when a deep crisis broke out there, we must also address this margin. in my country alone, the sector is losing 80 million euros a week, and the source is nowhere to be found, and healthy businesses are now on the verge of collapse. that cannot be the purpose of this european union. i assume that you will take this strong signal from this house to the meeting of the agriculture ministers.
president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a crisis and frankly we have more sensible things to do at the moment than point fingers and assign blame. when you're in the middle of a crisis, there's nothing to do but bite your tongue and solve the crisis first. we can discuss all other matters afterwards. the first priority is to find a treatment for the patients against this antibiotic-resistant bacteria and to trace the source. we must also, above all, communicate very well to draw the fine line between information for patients, for consumers and for producers and to do justice to everyone. the question is: what about our crisis management? i'm sure it's not the last crisis. who's directing? there are too many authorities involved and someone needs to take the lead. that is what the council is going to have to discuss with you this afternoon. how is the future of directing going and who will take it over? the use of antibiotics is indeed a thorn in the side of animals and humans. there are too many differences between countries. and last but not least, the damage must be repaired. clarity and purpose.
the eurovignette directive is important because it sets the european rules for a kilometre charge and thus also ensures a level playing field in the european union for road transport. i do not wish to conceal the fact that our group had serious problems with the original committee proposal and also with the position taken by the rapporteur at first reading. fortunately, the rapporteur has taken strong steps in our direction, and it is certainly also thanks to the council and the hungarian presidency, which have managed to achieve not only a solid majority in the council but also to get this parliament to support this position. the majority of my group will support this agreement too, because it is the first step towards introducing the polluter pays principle, but in a sensible way. the first is that there must be incentives to promote sustainability, not just to increase burdens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this will keep the total toll charge the same. the exceptions for euro v and euro vi are also a positive point, and the fact that the member states have again committed themselves to regulating the interoperability of toll systems is a thorn in our side, because that is still not the case. the earmark is also important for parliament. we wanted more. but it is certainly an important step, not only the percentage now allocated but also the reporting obligation for the member states. i hope that is a prelude to further consideration of these funds.
the present proposal for the eurovignette, mr president, amounts to the fact that efficient european road transport subsidizes inefficient railways. the most worrying thing is that this parliament regards the present proposal as only a first step. this first step, which is obviously in the wrong direction, means that the member states' current right to implement this legislation will soon become an obligation, that the tax per kilometre will only increase and, above all, that it will be the driver's turn. this parliament is talking about a single system between member states. the introduction of this proposal, however, means that transport companies can prepare themselves for a new cabin in their lorry, with new taxes, of course. it is clear that with this proposal the european parliament is turning the neck of road transport over to climate hysteria. the transport sector is already suffering enough and is not waiting for more taxes imposed by europe.
the commission has already taken a number of important decisions in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to take a decision on this matter in due course. finally, we have now agreed to pass on the costs of using infrastructure, noise and air pollution to the carrier. i hope that many european member states will adopt this system, including the netherlands. the rutten government is wise to bring the plans for 'paying others for mobility' out of the closet. those plans are in line with the current agreement. i hope that the european commission will come forward with proposals to extend these costs to other modes of transport in stages. of course, this must take account of the specific characteristics of each sector. inland waterway transport is not the only user of river water. we see that these days with this extreme drought very clearly. agriculture has now opened its sprinklers wide. but we've taken an important step and we have to move on.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - the commission is very interested in all aspects of the promotion of this cultural dimension in europe and in all exchanges. i am very attached to it myself and have already met some of the main players in this field. we will be presenting proposals at the end of this month for the financial perspectives for all sectors, including culture. we will of course make important proposals in this area. we are thinking of rationalising the instruments while ensuring the ambition of programmes such as those you have mentioned, which are emblematic programmes and of the utmost importance for a europe of citizens and a europe which recognises the value of culture.
president of the commission. − the issue of corruption was dealt with when we had this outreach meeting with african leaders, but i can tell you that anti-corruption issues are going to be high on the agenda of the g20 meeting in november. having said that, i think it was a useful discussion because, when there is corruption, someone is corrupted but there is also someone doing the corrupting, so in a way the g8 members were also scrutinised when we discussed the issue of africa. by the way, i gave them very good news because i announced that the commission is going to put forward initiatives relating to transparency for raw materials – good or bad news depending on perspective: less transparency makes it easier for some regimes to use revenues from their national resources and raw materials in a non-transparent way, sometimes with the complicity, we have to say, of the so-called developed world. that was the angle taken on the issue at the last g8 meeting.
mr barroso, you have just spoken about the european central bank and you said that the european central bank is independent. the point is, the ecb is not independent in the greek crisis. the ecb has taken sides. the ecb, as a commercial bank, has bought up tens of billions of weak bonds and now the ecb is preventing the necessary restructuring of greek debt. my question is specific: what are you doing to prevent the ecb from holding back the hard but necessary measures to restructure the greek economy?
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. mr president, you would like to raise the flag and drink a glass of champagne, because if a people can choose its own independence, then it should and it can. the annoying thing here is that south sudan actually has a legacy from the past and that raising the flag or drinking that glass of champagne might be a little bit wrong, given the situation they're in. now that north sudan has invaded abyei, it is commendable that south sudan has said: we will not be provoked. but the question is, of course, how long will this continue? the fact that we as an international community have watched the abyei issue go unresolved in the referendum is actually very irresponsible and is a recipe for renewed war. we can therefore safely assume that un troops will have to be sent to restore order. what i find particularly complicated is: what do we name and what don't we name? let's look at the fact that sudan is trying to influence the future referendum in abyei by saying: "count the shepherds who partly do and partly don't stop"? is it right for south sudan to say: "no, because they don't live here permanently"? by saying that, are you not denying the shepherds' right to exist? it's like a catch-22 that you don't have a solution for. and then there are two other aspects. if south sudan wants to get off to a good start, they're entitled to debt relief. debts created by the regime in khartoum, which cannot be said to have served the people in the south well. the other aspect is: how do we deal with the riches that are buried in the ground in south sudan? is south sudan now involved in the extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti), which monitors corruption and benefits the people from oil wealth? and if not, how can we in europe help? the only thing that really helps, when it comes to european aid to south sudan and indeed to the north, is to initiate fair trade and fair investment. we are all watching with fear as the situation unfolds and i hope that we can once again raise that flag and that glass of champagne toasting the freedom of south sudan.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has been asked to make a statement on the situation in sudan. first of all: i urge the high representative to work with the sudanese authorities to secure the release of the christian woman hawa abdalla muhammad saleh, who was arrested on 25 may in a refugee camp in darfur by the security services on religious grounds. saleh was reportedly tortured after her arrest and taken to an unknown location in khartoum, a personal tragedy that requires european involvement. two , you 're not . i read a strong condemnation - and this struck me as a member of the european parliament - from a person familiar with the sudanese situation and an international observer in the often troubled abyei region that the diplomatic pressure from europe on the murderous and belligerent regime of president al-bashir is "null and void and poorly coordinated". that's a crushing charge, actually. does the international community, including europe, feel that president al-bashir is invulnerable now that abyei is occupied? and this is not at a time when al-bashir is so weak at home and international pressure on his regime is more than opportune! i hope that european pressure will be brought to bear on al-bashir.
mr president, the glorious day of july 9th is approaching. south sudan will officially become independent, a nation that openly embraces the great values of the christian faith. but a nation that is also sorely tried, for the old fox omar al-bashir has lost almost all his hair, but certainly not his tresses. in the abyei region, he has begun to slaughter civilians. the ethnic cleansing of the southern ngok dinka people seems to have begun. united nations staff are not safe. mrs ashton knows our support for her human rights policy. and with regard to the rebels in benghazi, she has made clear choices, and rightly so. do the same now, against omar al-bashir, because the people of south sudan deserve our strong support.
mr president, i'm going to throw myself at the door. bulgaria and romania, our corrupt eastern european bullies, do not meet the conditions for schengen membership at all. i repeat: not at all. in the meantime, commissioner malmström may idealistically ponder the sanctity of the schengen acquis, and the majority of parliament may be delighted with the idea of how wonderful it would be if bulgaria and romania joined schengen, but it is not realistic. it's naive, it's actually childishly naive. the facts don't lie. bulgaria and romania have themselves long and widely demonstrated that they are not worthy of schengen at the moment. according to the transparency international corruption index, corruption is rampant in both countries. in terms of reliability, on a scale of 1 to 10, bulgaria scores only 3.6 and romania 3.7. on a school report, these figures would mean: failed, totally failed. and these countries should join schengen? of course not, never. the facts don't lie either. in january this year, several dozen bulgarian customs officials were arrested for corruption. in february this year, almost 200 romanian customs officials were arrested, also for corruption. both countries also score alarmingly high on human trafficking. in the netherlands alone, dozens of victims of bulgarian and romanian trafficking have been found in the past year. and these countries should join schengen? it would be a disgrace and utterly irresponsible. one can want, one can want so much. but look at the reality. take off the blinders. bulgaria and romania are not at all entitled to schengen. not now, not ever.
mr president, anyone who has followed the dossier knows that the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area is an extremely difficult dossier for the netherlands. but we also have a european responsibility. in that connection, i have one question for the commissioner: how does the enforcement of the schengen criteria fit into the overall fight against corruption? we have heard recently about the border guard between bulgaria and ukraine, that they have bribed bulgarian border guards to let people who do not belong to the european union enter the external borders. secondly, as my colleague mr pirker has already announced: what does the large-scale police cuts in romania mean for the enforcement of the schengen criteria? there's no negotiation with the unions. what's the status?
i would like to ask my esteemed colleague, mr president, in view of his extremely negative reactions to the position of the dutch government, whether he still recognizes the democratic right of the european member states to express their own views on behalf of their citizens.
it is interesting to note that whenever we talk about a budget for the future, the debate is always about 'how much exactly'. the debate should really be about three issues, three priorities which are also crucial for us greens. firstly, we need a vision of europe, and what is the added value of the european budget for that vision of europe? secondly, yes, mr ashworth, the budget must be renewed and greener, it must be a budget for the future. but a budget for the future also means changes and still means european money. the third priority concerns the eu's own resources. make the system fairer and more transparent, and we'll talk about own revenue. let me briefly review these three priorities, starting with added value. here again the debate is as if the money going to brussels disappeared into a black hole. what nonsense, really total nonsense! if you look at what can be done at the european level, there are many reasons to spend money at the european level and not at the national level. now, for example, diplomatic services, embassies abroad. do we want 27 in all kinds of countries in africa, or do we want one from the eu? that means more money going to the eu for that eu embassy, but that means 27 times less money being spent in 27 member states. that's efficient use of money. look at the infrastructure. if we as countries build infrastructure, how do we ensure that this is also true across borders in the field of energy and networks? you need european money. or take innovation and research. get this put together, so you can do that right together, so you have economies of scale. that's a smart investment. that is a vision of the added value of europe. and that is why we need a european budget. secondly, the budget must be forward-looking. the current budget is too much business as usual. we have 2020 targets for a smart economy, a sustainable economy. so that's where we need to invest. the challenges facing the eu are dealing with scarcity, scarcity of natural resources, but also of labour. the eu must invest in this so that we can deal with it. the agricultural fund must be renewed and greenered so that agriculture becomes a sector which manages natural resources well and efficiently. the structural funds must also respond to the new challenges, such as energy saving. ensure that the structural funds contribute to the objectives we set for 2020. that's the innovation we should be talking about. what are the new challenges? sustainable energy - that means infrastructure, and we need money for that - foreign policy - the arab spring: what is the european response? we need european money for this too - poverty reduction inside and outside the eu, climate change, innovation, all reasons to act at eu level. the third point concerns own resources. the current system is bankrupt. the rebates that the british have, that the dutch and the danes want, it's a bankrupt system. make it fairer, make it more transparent, or provide own revenue for the eu. think of it as a financial transaction tax. then you have a fair system where the money goes to the eu and we can achieve our own goals. that's smart policy. it must be different, but it must certainly also be at european level. finally, i would like to ask the member states who say that they can do less and less, but who at the same time give the eu all kinds of new priorities: if you want less, what priorities are we going to surrender as the eu? because if you want less, you have to make choices. so far, we've heard that there are more and more priorities, with less money. that math is a mess. that should be the question to the british and dutch governments.
mr president, just before the first world war, the british foreign secretary sir edward gray said these words: "the lights are going out all over europe. we will not see them again in our generation". we have before us the polledo report on the political priorities of the european parliament for the years after 2013. it is a question of legislation as well as of budget. this is the eu's vision of the future of the european citizens. what a terrible poverty of intellect, culture and administration this is! what a tendency towards dictatorship by the european political elite. the european parliament, for example, claims that the eu has more weight at international level than the sum of the individual member states. the commission is therefore calling for a minimum increase of 5% in the eu budget. what a foolish thing to do. what a denial of national sovereignty and contempt for the citizens and governments of our countries. let me be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. members of the european parliament with fresh, freedom-loving views will throw this report straight into the garbage. - why? - why? because otherwise the lights go out in europe and we prepare a dark future for our children. my group wants to keep the lights on in europe and that is why we will vote against the report with conviction.
i would like to ask mr hartong the following. at present, several european member states are members of the g8, the organisation of the world's eight largest economies. in 10 or 15 years' time, not a single european country will be in that situation. how can you continue to maintain that individual european countries will continue to play a significant role on the world stage? do you not think that the only way for europe to continue to play a real role in this area is to act together?
mr president, i thank my colleague for the question. europe is so beautiful and so powerful because of its member states that the member states, in concert, can make a very good voice heard on the world political stage. and it will remain so. it is precisely because national governments work well together that a beautiful sound will be heard.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, for the committee on development and cooperation this is not only a clear report but also an essential one, because it establishes that the european union is aware of its responsibility for the poorest countries for the next seven years and is therefore making a contribution to the budget. it states that member states must fulfil their own commitments. 0.7% of gross national income for development cooperation, they are a long way from that. but cooperation within the european union for development cooperation leads to savings, to avoid duplication, to better and more efficient spending. the report states that measures to combat climate change should not be financed from the development budget. it calls for greater priority to be given to strengthening human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it calls for new methods of financing in addition to grants, combinations of loans and grants. it stressed that humanitarian action must retain its own independent financing instrument, since emergency aid must be neutral, independent of political choices in external action, in the eeas (european external action service). with these choices, the european union remains the most important partner for the developing countries of the world, and that is essential.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - mr president, the committee on the environment can also be satisfied with the report as it stands. it focuses on the scarcity of raw materials, the threat to biodiversity, the development of renewable energy, and above all - which i think is very important - the importance of sustainability for our economy. but, there is one thing, we live in a time when all member states turn every euro at least three times before it is spent. yet we do something very strange. we spend billions in subsidies on things that we have to repair with many more billions later, billions going to environmentally damaging subsidies. that is why i have tabled again on behalf of my group the amendment which was adopted in the committee on the environment to reduce subsidies which have a harmful effect on the environment in the years to come, up to 2020. it is in these times of scarcity that we should not have such subsidies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. 'more europe is needed, more europe is good for you and more europe means more money'. we already know the percentage of raises that she and mr. verhofstadt would like. it is strange that we see a completely opposite movement among the citizens. trust in europe is declining. the citizens see this parliament as a money-spending machine that demands more and more money. isn't it about time you adjusted your creed and came up with a different story in line with what mr. ashworth is advocating?
mr president, this is a very bad report, and it is going to be thrown in the trash. it is at a time when citizens everywhere are faced with incredibly painful austerity measures that it is beyond words that we in the european union are proposing to spend a lot of extra money. and that 's when there 's another way . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this report says that we should keep things the way they are: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is already in the process of adopting a new budget. this parliament should be ashamed of itself, and in particular the liberals and the christian democrats. while in the netherlands the rutte government is not ignoring the sick and disabled, the same groups in this house have a hole in their hands. savings champion in his own country, big spenders in brussels. it's a disgrace!
the key word for europe, mr president, is 'trust'. the european institutions, and especially this european parliament, must restore the confidence of the citizens. how could you do that? firstly, not more europe or more money for europe, but a better europe, a europe with added value, and no european interference in matters which the member states can perfectly well manage themselves, such as sport or tourism. secondly, to use the cohesion fund to help the really poor regions in europe. now, 50 percent goes to rich member states like germany and france. this is unacceptable. if we manage it well, the unnecessary money-pumping can also be reduced and we will have a net surplus. thirdly, investing in future-proof agriculture and industry. the polledo report is a failure. everything and everything is pushed into the big cooking pot and the citizen has to digest the smudge. enjoy your meal, but don't choke on it.
mr president, one of the main points that has emerged in this debate is: "what exactly is the european added value?" i hope that when the commission comes forward with its proposals at the end of this month, it will clearly define why certain budget lines have a clear added value. i think we should know exactly what that is, because then we can defend what we vote for. secondly, the debate will also be very much influenced by the debates on own resources. one of the things that has put the debate off is a decision in 1984 on the british rebate. how did that last forever? i think there should be no rebate at all, or else the other countries which are in a similar situation to britain in 1984 should also be given equal treatment. i hope that the commission's proposals will also go in that direction.
in writing. - i cannot support the garriga polledo report. the reason for this is that i am opposed in principle to the replacement of member state contributions by direct eu funds, read an eu tax. the union must be at the service of the member states and this must be reflected in the financing. in substance, i have difficulty with the eu 2020 strategy as a guide for the multiannual financial framework. the objectives of the strategy concern social and employment policies, which are the responsibility of the member states. the failure of the lisbon strategy shows what happens when we base our strategy on matters over which the european union has no control. the report also seeks to reduce the amount of arrears by increasing payments. however, if the implementation of projects is slow, it is rational to take fewer new contractual commitments. in short, the report shows no sign of any sense of prudent budgetary management in the face of the enormous economic problems facing the european economies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in this way we are repeating at european level the mistakes made by a number of member states in recent years.
i would like to thank my colleague from the european people's party, mr president, for agreeing to join us in a debate on the hungarian constitution. that is commendable. because when i hear the representative of the european council say 'we have not discussed it in the council' and i hear commissioner reding say 'the constitution of a country is for that country alone, we do not discuss it in europe', i am glad that we are still debating it here in the european parliament. because, are we not talking about it? is it a matter of hungary alone? i'd say not at all. the state of democracy in one member state in europe affects the other member states. if one country chooses to establish an autocracy through fair elections and a two-thirds majority, the rest may be shocked and the rest may try to stop it. i quote györgy konrád, who says: "in hungary, a so-called majority has succeeded in democratically creating an autocratic regime". and that's the truth. because if you are now pushing a law through parliament in hungary and say that it can only be changed with a two-thirds majority from now on, you know that it will not be easy to change it again after the next elections. that kind of thing hollows out the center of an election. it is the right of a population to say every four years 'i liked this, i did not like this', and then to be able to make changes. but when a democratically elected regime organizes it in such a way that you can't make any changes after four years, that's unhealthy and wrong. if we in europe look the other way and say 'it is hungary's business', if 26 member states are not prepared to say 'friends, this is not how we treat each other in our society', and if the european commission says the same, what do we have to say to countries where the situation is much worse? what should we say to hungarians who are not in the two-thirds majority? i'm sorry, but even after the next two elections, you have no chance of rolling back laws. it is a pity that we in europe are all looking the other way and not acting.
madam president, in this house we have discussed media freedom being under pressure in italy, slovakia and hungary. we have discussed the violation of lgbt rights in lithuania, hungary, and poland. we have discussed the expulsion of and discrimination against roma people in france and italy, and there have been many other examples of debates about fundamental rights being under pressure in one member state or another. every single time, i have heard the epp say that this should not be party politics and that we should not single out member states. this is not about member states, this is about fundamental rights. fundamental rights is not a matter of subsidiarity. fundamental rights is about the very foundations of the european union. in order to demonstrate this i remind you that we ask candidate countries to adapt not only their laws but also their constitutions in order to be admitted as members of the european union. clearly, colleagues, there are objective concerns that have been expressed not only by political parties but also by the venice commission, and at the very least there are ambiguities. instead of having this very acrimonious debate, we should try and clarify the issues. one last practical suggestion to the hungarian government. if you want to demonstrate your very strong commitment to the protection and promotion of lgbt rights, i would invite you to walk with budapest gay pride on 18 june.
president. - i am pleased to see commissioner reding in this debate on the defence of european democratic values. we have missed her in previous debates on the hungarian media law, where the same values were at stake. as for the constitution, each people has the right to choose its own representatives in government. the government has a responsibility to stand up for the interests of its people, the entire people. in the case of hungary, the majority party fidesz decides on a new constitution. by changing the constitution in this way, without really involving other parties and civil society organizations, the democratic process is undermined, the dynamics are removed and the monopoly of one party is threatened. the majority at the expense of the minority. a true democracy is tested and judged by how a country treats its minorities. one minority in particular, the lgbt community, will be affected by a constitution that in the 21st century will revert to traditional forms of society. this is going back in time, not moving with time. we expect better from our eu presidency. (the president declared his readiness to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
these things are always being thrown back. but can you explain why there is so much protest here, why all sorts of colleagues here are saying that it is not right. why is this debate happening? i think this debate would not have happened if everything had gone well. can you identify the party affiliation of the 17,000 forms? who did you send it to? i'd like to know that from you.
madam president, i would just like to ask for a little clarification from colleagues on that side of the house, because in the debate you have firmly insisted on the right of every member state to pass laws as it deems fit, as long as it has a democratic majority, and that those laws should be recognised by other countries. could i perhaps ask mr szájer to reply, on behalf of the epp group, whether that means that, from now on hungary and the other countries represented will also recognised the dutch marriage law that allows same-sex couples to get married?
madam president, i think i put a very concrete and clear question to mr szájer. i hope he would like to reply.
madam president, on a point of order – and i tried to make this point halfway through the debate, but you cut me off – i would suggest that you look back over this debate and see how you allocated blue card questions and catch-the-eye requests. i can sum it up: two blue card requests from me were ignored, while requests were approved from mr alvaro (twice), from ms göncz (three times) and from mr tavares (once). you were unable to genuinely balance the way these were distributed. i would ask you to take a look at this next time so as to achieve a balance.
the european arrest warrant is a matter of human destiny, human rights and fundamental freedoms. in the netherlands, there is a lot of attention to the fate of cor disselkoen. in 1997, this dutch entrepreneur was accused of violating polish tax rules. he was imprisoned for two months under miserable conditions. after a very high bail, he was released and for 12 years he heard nothing more about the case. last year, poland suddenly demanded the surrender of the entrepreneur. poland made use of the european arrest warrant. a week and a half ago, he was transported to poland. according to disselkoen's lawyer, he was held in a prison as filthy and overcrowded as it was in 1997. the conversation between disselkoen and his lawyer was recorded by a video camera against all rules. in addition, four new charges were suddenly brought against him. the judge even threatened that these could lead to a new arrest warrant. disselkoen has paid another large bail and is back in the netherlands. but his case shows that the european arrest warrant can lead to dehumanizing situations. the commission's report shows that it is aware of the problems and is concerned about them. that is why my group has placed its hopes in the commissioner. the commissioner, can you explain the wording of the proportionality requirements and have the council adopt them? and can you ensure that individuals actually have the right to challenge an arrest warrant in both the issuing and executing member states? do you agree that in countries where the situation in prisons and detention centres is still inhumane, the execution of an arrest warrant can be consistently denied, that there will be a human rights review and that cor disselkoen will not have to fear further misery?
i am very grateful to mrs ludford for her question, because it was burning on my lips. i was present in poland last week at a trial of mr cor disselkoen - his name has already been mentioned here today - a dutchman who was extradited to poland on a european arrest warrant for a case dating back to the mid-1990s. in the few days he was locked up - because a settlement was finally reached between the dutch judge and the polish judge - in those few days, the guards there stole his medication for his heart condition. the problem is not only how the european arrest warrant is being used, but also that the prison conditions in various countries in europe are such that you cannot really send people there anymore. it should also be the discretion of a judge in the requested country to say: i am not going to be extradited to a country where the prison facilities are inhumane, and i am abiding by article 3 of the european convention on human rights as a judge. i agree with the council that countries should be discreet about the matters for which they make such a request, but countries should also have the space to say: that's such a small offense, i don't turn people in for that. it would therefore be very important for poland to adapt its legal system. (the president declared his readiness to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i'm not making any secret of it. the name was mentioned before, perhaps inadequately in the interpretation. his name is mr. cor disselkoen. i also have a case about mr. hörchner, also a dutchman. i have mentioned the name now and mr disselkoen is not at all ashamed of it, because he is seeking to change the european arrest warrant and therefore wants to talk about it publicly.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, commissioner, thank you for your good cooperation in drafting the resolution. i do not need to go into the points raised by the commissioner now, because they are also included in the resolution. the epp wants the final declaration of the summit next week to be more than just pretty words. russia is our great neighbour, russia is an important partner. we have a mutual dependency. it's a big one, so we're looking at real deals that will lead to results. what are our priorities? first of all, the partnership agreement. the negotiations must be conducted smoothly. i expect the eu to convince president medvedev that his negotiating team now has all the room to reach concrete agreements. it is high time that the trade and investment dossier was withdrawn. the negotiations on the energy chapter are also lagging behind. agreements must be reached for a solid, transparent and rules-based energy partnership. i'd also like to hear where we stand on the human rights clause. this is a crucial part of the partnership for us as a parliament. i see the modernisation pact as complementary, as are the common areas. it's secondary, but it does help to get the wto rules through. that is good for the level playing field and also good for the investment climate. president medvedev is personally involved in the improvement of the rule of law. but this is not enough, as you have just said. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the elections in the coming years are held in accordance with the commitments made by russia within the council of europe and the osce. the litmus test is the election. this also means that registration for new batches must be carried out. russia should take pride in the fact that election observers are invited ahead of schedule. and finally, the ban on the import of european vegetables.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. i am counting on the eu-russia summit in brussels to speak out firmly against the very harmful and disproportionate ban on imports of our european vegetables. the horticultural sector expects and deserves a lift. commissioner füle, can you confirm that the eu delegation will be fully engaged in nizhny novgorod? this is a very important question which is really burning in my country at the moment when i talk about the eu-russia summit. i wanted to talk to you about the problematic accession of russia to the wto. just one more quick question. georgia was actually a key player. georgia has de facto veto power. president saakashvili is putting a lot of money into this. he wants transparent borders - he wants abkhazia and south ossetia back, in fact - and he is of course also calling for a ban on georgian wines and mineral waters. but russia seems to be absolutely unmoved. in short, is there a stagnation here? it's very similar. moreover, the russian economy, which is mainly oil and gas-based, does not really need wto membership.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll also give you a carrot and handle the stick. i am pleased with the european stress tests, which are identical throughout the eu. it was badly needed. i'm just afraid of a false sense of security. we should not be confirming the safety of nuclear power stations, but rather we should be examining the risks and not giving a false sense of security. there must be independent supervision throughout the eu, there must be an independent supervisor. it's not here yet. now we have created an extra layer, but can you tell us if we will eventually also have an additional independent watchdog, on which scientific counter-expertise is also provided? i agree with mr belet and mr leinen that this should no longer be covered by the euratom treaty. the citizen has a right to maximum security and it is time to take this aspect out of the euratom treaty. are you going to start that discussion? then a discussion which has not yet been sufficiently carried out: what will you do about the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency following the fukushima disaster? are you going to adjust the stress test? can you tell me what happens if the stress test is negative? i am very disappointed with what has happened to our resolution and i am very sorry that we have allowed ourselves to be so carried away by emotions. safety is always first.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, no-one will disagree that terrorism needs to be prevented and that suspects need to be tried and held accountable, brought to justice in a fair trial, but in the so-called war on terror we risk compromising precisely those freedoms and values that we claim to defend against destruction through terrorism. if we allow the erosion of fundamental rights and principles, we will have allowed the terrorists to win. if we act unjustly we are less credible and even weak. the declaration of the end of the war on terror was one of the first landmarks by president obama. however, the failure to close guantánamo bay is disappointing and we must also look at ourselves in europe. we are unwilling to take remaining inmates and we must get clarity on the participation in renditions and extrajudicial acts, including torture, on european soil. yes, we must hold ourselves to the highest standards and open these dark pages of recent eu history. that means we must openly be able to talk about countries involved. even in this parliament that still appears to be difficult. the eu and us need to work together, not in violating human rights, but rather to address the most pressing threats in our world. we generally share core values, but the difference in our position on the death penalty, which i am proud to say is entirely banned in europe, makes our joint voice less effective and less credible in the world. let us lead by example in the free world and let us be known for our respect for human rights indiscriminately of whether we are dealing with friends or enemies.
the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. we then sent messages to the president of the commission and the president of the council to talk about the russian elections. we have now received information that one party in russia has been refused registration. at the same time, the osce has been informed that observers may be sent. we want to have a statement here as soon as possible on the situation in russia. we also want to have a debate on this. i think that's desirable.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, europe urgently needs a strong foundation for the euro. we have been discussing this package for many months and now there is 98% agreement with the council. we would like to have the vote tomorrow so that parliament can express its views in a vote in plenary. further negotiations with the council are needed so we can get a final agreement before summer in order to have a strong foundation for the euro.
president barroso said on tuesday that greece could count on european support. europe will deliver, he says. mr president, on what does mr barroso base this power? is it not true that aid to greece is expressly prohibited by the treaty of lisbon? is it not true that the national parliaments must individually approve aid? isn't it true that they can say no, too? the commission's powers are increasing. it is time to put an end to this. the commission sees itself as the governing body of all european countries, as the ultimate decision-maker under barroso. president barroso was not democratically elected. no european has voted for this man. i have only one word for a government that rules without democracy and that is a dictatorship. a bureaucratic dictatorship that wants to subjugate the greeks and that also wants to rule in the netherlands. it is unacceptable that the man barroso is going to decide whether the netherlands will provide aid. there is only one who decides whether the netherlands will help greece and that is the dutch parliament. support for greece is useless. it is damaging to the dutch economy and to the dutch citizens. barroso was right about that. he said it himself on tuesday: even if the greek debt were to disappear by some miracle, the problem is not solved. the conclusion of the european summit, mr president, cannot be otherwise. the only long-term solution to this problem is for the greeks to reintroduce their drachma which could devalue. the other member states will not have to pay that bill.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. that is why our group is satisfied with the results we have achieved so far in the legislative package on economic governance. i would like to thank all my colleagues, rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, staff, staff, everyone, for the many hours we have spent together to achieve this, because the european parliament has taken a firm and ambitious position in its mandate. i would like to thank the hungarian presidency, and in particular mr andrás kámán, for their efforts to bridge the differences between the council and parliament. you have made it possible for us to reach an agreement of 98%, thanks in part to the helpful support of commissioner rehn and his staff. a great result, but it wasn't easy. we'll vote on the reports tomorrow. my group will be committed to building on the broad consensus we have reached. i hope that in the coming weeks we can bridge the remaining differences so that we can reach an agreement before the summer. that is very important, because my group is seeking a final vote in the july plenary. the financial markets are still in turmoil and we urgently need to find a solution to the debt crisis in a number of countries. however, it is equally urgent - and this is our task as co-legislators - that europe show its strength in the decision-making on an ambitious stability pact and economic governance. a decision before the summer is crucial to restore confidence in the euro, as the stability and growth pact was not respected as early as 2003. instead of enforcing the rules of the game, they have been extended and that must now come to an end. it is a question of credible legislation and not of trifles between member states to avoid fines. if member states do not take effective action to meet their obligations and reduce deficits - which are obligations they have themselves undertaken - then decision-making must be effective. that is why this parliament has proposed the reverse voting procedure. let us be clear, the magic formula of our colleagues on the left, the golden rule, will not bring the solution. unfortunately, there is no money tree, and the days of easy solutions and painless choices are long gone. the ppe therefore advocates sustainable public finances and not the allowance of a 5 or 6% budget deficit. the debt burden - we are now seeing the painful evidence of this - is hindering economic growth, not only in our european countries but also in the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am glad that the council has taken up the preventive arm of the proposals, namely that member states should strengthen their own national responsibilities and involve national parliaments, clear deadlines and procedures and inspection visits, more public reports, peer pressure, public debates in this parliament instead of the council's reticence. of course, there is the important achievement of the european semester, because we want jobs and growth. mr president, we are facing a historic day. tomorrow in this parliament we are prepared to take our responsibility. i see a socialist group and a green group wanting to impose a blockade. the scope for compromise is limited to the own-initiative report. mr president, that is not an atmosphere of compromise. i would like to call on all colleagues who think sustainable public finances are important to support the six reports tomorrow. it is not the final outcome, because tomorrow is a step towards consulting the council to clear the last hordes on the way - hopefully - to an agreement in july.
the greek crisis is at the heart of this debate. to lend more to the greeks and to demand more austerity from them is unwise. the greeks can never repay the loans and an economy that is dying cannot cut back. you can't ask a skeleton to put on his pants. what is needed? firstly, those in this parliament who brought greece into the eurozone must take the blame along with belgian minister reynders. of course, this should never have happened. secondly, the greek debt must be written off in part and, in order to ensure that the remaining debt is paid off, a multiannual recovery plan for the greek economy must be drawn up. thirdly, the stability and growth pact must include automatic sanctions against the euro-sinner, because we must never have this misery again. i think the wortmann-kool report would have been more powerful on this point. i support the six-pack, but on that point i shall abstain on the wortmann-kool report.
mr president, the stability and growth pact must be strengthened. the experience of the past few years makes this clear. i am also glad that the negotiating result is a step in the right direction. ministers must not again be allowed to play the hand that rules the other when a member state is allowing public finances to go off the rails. it would therefore be good to improve the prevention of large deficits by taking decisionmaking further away from politics. the rapporteur, mr wortmann-kool, is therefore right to insist that ministers should be able to block decisions only by a qualified majority. however, a pain point for me is the statement by commissioner rehn, which is related to this legislative package. this is a step towards the introduction of euro bonds. the president of the ecb pointed out that it was undesirable to create a situation in which budgetary discipline was lacking and to introduce euro bonds. the introduction of new debts is aggravating the european debt problem. the social democrats and the greens also want to exempt public investment from the norm of a maximum ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would also like to thank everyone who took part in the debate and who supported us with such clear arguments. i would also like to thank sharon bowles, chairman of the committee on economic affairs, because the situation was very complicated and it is certainly also thanks to her that we will hopefully have a positive vote tomorrow. president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment tabled by mr von wogau, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give me a brief explanation of his position. mr president, there is a package on the table. we've accomplished a great deal. commissioner rehn has 15 items on his list and there may be colleagues who have problems with details in this package, but if you look at the alternative from the left, it only takes us further from home. i therefore hope that tomorrow, on this important legislative package for this parliament, which for the first time in its history has a co-legislative power, members will be prepared to take their responsibility, as the council is doing. we have a number of other hordes to deal with next week, but with a hopefully positive vote tomorrow and another week to go, i hope we can finally reach a decision at the first reading in july, because we are 98% in. i would also like to stress on behalf of the ppe what mr goulard has said about symmetry and asymmetry. it is indeed a give and take in this parliament and everyone has his priorities. but then it must also be a matter of compromise to finally adopt a position of this parliament on the package, also on the point of symmetry.
mr president, commissioner, you have spoken about three matters for which i believe you can count on a large majority in the european parliament. you're talking about the question of supporting the export ban. at least you get that from a lot of us, because it's our own garbage. we must take care of it ourselves and not take it to other countries outside the european union. you're advocating transparency. no one is against it. it seems to me a very good idea, especially when it comes to something that moves so many people like nuclear energy and nuclear waste. you also talk about the reversibility of the ultimate solution of underground storage. you say, "it's not going to be final, we can always get to it". that's very good. i am sure you will have my support for that. i have one concern, and that is underground storage. is it absolutely certain that this is the safest method? not in my book. it's not used anywhere either. in some countries, the whole geology is not really suited for that, so i would like to argue that there is really a possibility of another safe way of dealing with it above ground.
rapporteur. – madam president, if members look at their e-mails and all the requests from lobbyists and industry, and the pros and cons on the climate, they can conclude that climate is very clearly back on the political agenda. that is a very good thing, because climate has never been off the scientific agenda. if you look at how science has been evolving meanwhile, the arguments for stronger climate policies have become stronger and stronger every day. however, in the political field, it was rather quiet on the climate front after copenhagen and cancún. now it is clearly back on the political agenda. that is a good thing. however, what is very important is that in the meantime it has become a different debate. it is not only a climate argument any more. it has become more and more an economic debate, an economic argument. if you look at the new industries relying on climate policies, they are asking for more ambitious climate policies. or look at our oil dependency and the situation in northern africa: the debate on oil dependency is becoming more and more important for our economic position in the eu. but look too at all the letters from industry, really lobbying for going to 30% because it is in their interest; it helps their profits if we step up our climate ambitions. this very clearly indicates that there is a fundamental shift in the debate on climate policies. that is very important. it is not the economy versus ecology; it is the economy and ecology. that is crucial. so what is in the report? of course, we are asking the commission to come forward with a proposal to move to 25% reduction domestically. this is very important, because that is the way to become less dependent on oil; that is the way to harvest the health co-benefits; that is also the way to really harvest the potential of energy savings. so energy savings are also a crucial part of the report because, if we meet our energy savings targets, we are already on the path of achieving 25% domestically in the eu. in the report, we are asking for 30% overall; so 25% domestically, but 30% as a whole. there are a lot of offsets still in the market, so if you have 25% domestically, we are discussing 30% as a whole as well. that also limits somewhat the role of offsetting, which has also been part of the debate; that is also in the report. this is also a discussion on the adjustment of the emissions trading system. let me be very clear. if we are stepping up climate ambitions through energy savings and we only do something relating to energy savings, the carbon price will go down; studies estimate from eur 15 to eur 0 per tonne carbon. so we also need to do something in the ets system to make sure we have the right price and really have the incentives to move to green technologies. it is going to be a crucial vote tomorrow for a future economy, a green economy. i urge the commission to follow up the request we will make as a parliament tomorrow by coming forward with a legislative proposal. the council is moving, parliament will set out its position tomorrow, and then it is up to the commission to come forward with a proposal. we know when we are discussing a legislative proposal that in the council there will be no veto for any country any more. we will have a majority in parliament, as we will see tomorrow, and a majority in the council to really step up our climate ambitions and make sure that the true future economy is the green economy.
mr president, today we are discussing the eu budget for 2012. the pvv is of course opposed to the proposed increase of almost 5% tooth and nail. all sorts of flagship initiatives are being overlooked, including the pumping of even more money into all sorts of useless european agencies that cost us nothing but taxpayers' money. the most important detail in the budget, however, is the additional 1.3 billion euros required for the iter project. the money for this must come from other headings in the current multiannual budget and that means that there is a revision. this means that each member state has a veto on the 2012 budget. this is a fantastic fact, because then the dutch government can exercise its right to approve the budget only in the case of absolute zero, as my dutch government has advocated. i therefore call on the netherlands and the like-minded member states in europe to make full use of that right.
president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion is firmly anchored in european policy and the treaty, and even better enshrined with the territorial dimension in the treaty of lisbon. i am very pleased that the european commission has set out the comprehensive approach for the future in its fifth cohesion report. we will maintain solidarity, but we will link the new eu 2020 objectives through those instruments that have proven to be so effective: the commission has also proposed a decentralised approach, partnership, linking programmes at different levels, and multi-layered governance. then we'll look at those new challenges. that's excellent in itself. it is also very good that these reports are here now. all the building blocks, with an additional emphasis on crossborder cooperation - objective 3 - are fully supported. there is one point that has been in the debate all along. we in the epp have included in our voting list an open vote, the right to vote freely, for the intermediate category and i would like to tell you why. the commission's proposal is not yet ready, but it has a lot of potential. the commissioner just said: i want to talk about specific, let's say, assignments to those types of regions. it's okay to talk about it, because we haven't talked about it yet. we don't know what regions are affected yet. we don't know where it's being paid from. we don't know what the co-financing rates are. these are all things that could affect that outcome. so my idea is: i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, but let us wait for the european commission's proposal - which i think will come quite soon - and then we can really know what we are talking about. the approach of transitional mechanisms and instruments is not open to discussion. we already did. riikka manner also said, we have facing out, facing in, we can have an integrated policy towards eu 2020. we will. so for the time being, the right to vote freely in the ppe.
thank you very much, mr president. i want to make a point of order. i am pleased to announce that my party leader geert wilders was acquitted this morning of all charges against him for insulting islam. freedom of expression is guaranteed in the netherlands.
madam president, i would like to underline what mrs bowles has said: we are hoping to find a final agreement on the report before our plenary session in july. right from the beginning, we have taken the position as a parliament – including the socialist group – that we treat this as a package. so let us treat this as a package and now support mrs bowles’ proposal to postpone the vote to july.
madam president, let me be very brief: we have two reports to go, and the climate debate is a crucial one because we are sending a signal to the council, which is starting tonight. therefore i propose having a vote now on this report and on the other one. there are two left. let us do it – and fast.
in writing. the pvv votes in favour of the consumer rights directive because it will better protect dutch consumers when shopping online. in the netherlands, consumers enjoy good protection, but when shopping online, often in foreign shops, this protection is not guaranteed or unclear. the present consumer directive improves the protection of crossborder purchases via the internet, and thus adds value for the dutch consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. that's a marked improvement over the current seven days. the pvv also welcomes the fact that this directive will put an end to hidden costs and ex post costs. the final price to be paid by the consumer must be clearly visible in advance. this directive thus contributes to greater protection for dutch consumers and the improvement of the internal market. the pvv fully supports that.
in writing. the vvd is against an absolute increase in the eu budget in 2012. with all member states facing heavy austerity measures on public finances, the eu cannot be left behind, and the eu will also have to make choices about what to do and what not to do.
in writing. − a strong cap with its associated resources is needed to ensure food security. this report shows that there is support for this amongst the people's representatives and thus also amongst the eu citizen. the structure of direct payments: i am fully in favour of maintaining the basic premium. the european food production meets high standards which impose high costs on farmers, but the market does not pay enough for them. the commission and the ep propose greening services for a fee as 'top-ups' to the basic premium. i would stress that under no circumstances should they lead to an increase in the pressure of regulation, but rather should they provide opportunities. the provision of these services will therefore have to be on a voluntary basis. the report also states that the ep is against the commission's proposed obligation to set up 'top-ups'. i urge that when a list of options for greening services is being drawn up, projects that create a win-win situation for the environment and farmer be sought out, leading to further innovation and sustainable growth. an example of this is the conversion of manure into energy. i would stress that the above proposals can only be implemented if the agricultural budget is increased.
the trade in complex financial products, the content of which was no longer understood or the risks of which could not be assessed, played an important role in the run-up to the financial and economic crises. that is why it is good that our commissioner barnier has come forward with these legislative proposals, because we need more openness in the derivatives trade and collateral must be better covered. our rapporteur, werner lange, has therefore done an excellent job of developing these proposals further into an ambitious package, in which we also build on the foundations we have laid for the european supervisory authority. derivatives should be traded publicly, as this gives supervisors greater visibility into the trade flows between buyers and sellers and allows for a better assessment of risks. i am glad that the proposals we are voting on tomorrow also take account of the special nature of pension funds, which are already subject to very strict risk legislation. there is a different aspect to the risk. they are not allowed to speculate and must cover the risk. they also have to meet the requirements of transparency and openness, but not the clearing obligation, and fortunately the exception is well developed in the proposal. a temporary and partial derogation, which allows for a solution to be found on the basis of a few years of practical experience, after which it will be up to the commission to decide whether we have found that solution or whether the time should be extended. i hope that on this and other points, the council, which has not yet been able to reach agreement, will follow parliament so that we can quickly reach a final conclusion on this legislation.
author. − madam president, i am very much looking forward to the answers to these very detailed questions. i would like to start by adding yet another one. we know that south korea and qatar have repeatedly asked to begin negotiations with the european commission for an agreement because they too are requesting the transfer of pnr. so far the commission has turned their request down. that means that there is no legal basis for the transfer of data to those countries. we know that other countries will soon follow suit. i would like to know what the commission’s course of action will be. secondly, i would like to highlight one point from the oral question, and that is the issue of necessity and proportionality. the demonstration that we had two weeks ago in manchester of the use of pnr underlined what we have been saying here for a long time. pnr data can, in particular circumstances, be useful, maybe even necessary, when people cross borders, but the long-term storage of data concerning all passengers remains very problematic. essentially, what is being done is that data is stored because it may come in handy one day in order to solve crimes that have not yet been committed and that we are not aware of. that is not proportional and your own legal advisers and those of the council agree. i look forward to your answer.
mr president, i will be very brief. firstly, i am intrigued to hear about the plans for a multilateral agreement for all the other countries. i am wondering why they get different treatment and when this will start, because some countries are already asking for pnr. secondly, on the legal opinions of the commission and council legal services, they were actually not on minor issues. they went right to the core. they challenged the core: the proportionality and the necessity of long-term storage. i would like to hear a little more about that. thirdly, regarding the legal basis, the european court of justice did not confirm police and justice cooperation as a legal basis; it simply rejected article 95 – internal markets – as a legal basis. finally, commissioner, on ‘push’ and ‘pull’, the parliament’s resolution is crystal clear: ‘push’ only. no ‘pull’: not even a little bit of ‘pull’. it is like being pregnant: you cannot be ‘a little bit’ pregnant. there is no such thing as ‘a little bit’ of ‘pull’. ‘pull’ is giving a log-in to a third country. ‘push’ only!
i would like to thank the hungarian presidency, mr president, for its efforts, because you have done crucial work to reach an agreement on economic governance. we have 98% of that agreement. prime minister orbán, your goal was a strong europe, but you can only achieve that with a strong team. i would therefore like to thank in particular mr kármán, your minister of finance, your ambassador and last but not least mr enikő győri, minister of state. at the beginning of your presidency you said that you wanted to take this parliament seriously and you have shown that you do, because many of our wishes have been fulfilled. i don't have to repeat it here. but this parliament also wants to ensure that the council takes decisions when they have to be taken. that's why the last 2%, the hordes we have to take, are so important, because it's crucial that we can ensure effective decision-making. our joint effort must be to build on that 98% and to take that last horde as well. i am aware that the result is valid. we're not 100%, but you've made a crucial breakthrough. because only thanks to your preliminary work will it be possible, i hope, to reach a final agreement in september.
president. - if the member states are finally given the power to keep the crap that the european union wants to allow, namely gmos, outside their borders, then this cannot be a sham power, as in the commission's original proposal. we don't need a dead sparrow. we're getting tired of all the pesticides we have to spray on gmos. let us be honest, without health, environmental and socioeconomic reasons as justification for a ban on gmo cultivation by member states, this piece of legislation is unnecessary. if one member state votes for the gmo and the other against, this distorts the competitive position of european farmers. it is only a matter of waiting for a case to be brought before the court and for a very good judge to say that it cannot be allowed throughout the union. this has to be resolved. despite the strictly confidential advice of my own member state to scrap a lot of amendments, i think mrs lepage has done a fine job. the european parliament will not be manipulated. thank you, mrs lepage.
president, my party, the christian union, has always advocated a broad framework of consideration when it comes to the cultivation of genetically modified crops. the safety of humans, animals and the environment must be a central concern and the lepage report reinforces the arguments on the basis of which member states can restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos. i support that line. many studies show that european consumers are critical of gmos. the commission has therefore been investigating alternative plant breeding techniques, including cisgenesis, for many years. i call on the commission to speed up the recognition of cisgenesis as a safe technique. at a hearing i organized on this last month, academics, consumers and business also called for the recognition of cisgenesis. i now call on commissioner dalli to do the same.
in writing. − this report aims to ensure that remote rural areas and low-income citizens have access to basic telecommunications services, the so-called universal services. this is necessary, as the report says, to promote social inclusion and social integration. the pvv considers that such social policy should remain a national matter and that european policy has no place in it. the proposal to put broadband in every corner of europe is also absurd. that is like driving across europe and connecting all the villages with four-lane highways. the netherlands has excellent internet connections, and we do not need european policy for that. the pvv also agrees with the importance of the 112 emergency number as a european number to call in case of emergencies. it is the responsibility of the member states to make this public. member states are best placed to choose the instruments with which to increase the awareness of the 112 number among the public. the pvv will therefore not support the proposal for a european policy in this area.
in writing. − the pvv supports this initiative to improve cooperation between national public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer legislation. the interests of consumers in the european single market are increasingly transnational. it is therefore necessary that national authorities cooperate effectively when consumers are duped by sellers and service providers abroad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not misled by fraudulent sellers and service providers abroad. this requires a good exchange of information between the authorities of the various member states. the report calls on the european commission to make proposals to improve operational cooperation between national authorities to better protect consumers in cross-border purchases. the pvv supports this objective as long as it is based on cooperation and exchange of information between national authorities.
in writing. − i have neither voted for nor against this report on cohesion policy after 2013. on the one hand, the report makes good proposals for improving the effectiveness of spending, for example in terms of reducing administrative burdens, financial control and a more results-oriented approach to policy by setting objectives and indicators in advance. however, i think that the extension of the line for the future should also have been the moment to critically consider whether all the money flows involved should necessarily pass through the eu. i am of the opinion that cohesion policy and its funds should be limited to the poorest regions in the least prosperous member states and that the rich member states should in principle not be eligible for the funds (except for projects under objective 3, where eu action has added value in bringing about crossborder territorial cooperation). the richer member states should bear less of the burden of the policy's consolidation. they could then spend the money on areas in their country that need extra care, without this flow of money going through the eu.
i think that one of the basic requirements of a budgetary commissioner is that he should be able to calculate. mr lewandowski says that the multiannual budget will increase by 5%, but that is not true. it's a lot more, considering all the posts he's now keeping off the budget because of some accounting gimmick. this is a matter of many billions of euros. the dutch government has therefore, together with a number of other wise and prudent member states, asked for a freeze on the multiannual budget. we are not even talking about real savings, but simply about freezing an already too high budget. but even that is asking too much. mr lewandowski calls the democratically elected colleagues from the danish people's party, the frugal english, the true finns and the pvv arrogant. that is another new term, alongside mr barroso's populists. mr lewandowski wants money to stop the erosion of important eu achievements. well, those achievements simply don't exist. it is a collection of failed, overpaid, insane projects which have no added value and serve only to satisfy a european elite which is all around them. fortunately, the public is becoming more aware of this, because they are no longer being dismissed as populist or arrogant, mr lewandowski. the real democrat knows where his or her vote is in good hands and who is really arrogant. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. here the image is being put forward as if we have a spending european union and all these thrifty national governments. but does mr hartong know that this dutch government will increase the national budget by 10% over the next four and a half years? so despite all the talk of endless cuts, the budget is going up by ten percent during the term of the government you support! can you put that in relation to that small increase in the european budget?
mr president, i thank my colleague for the question. the debate today is not about national budgets or budgets. this is the multiannual budget for the european union. and as you know, there are a number of member states who say that the european budget must not be increased. i would also like to remind my colleague that in the netherlands there is a great deal of effort to cut the budget by eight billion euros, but at the same time the european union is only pushing for an increase in budgets, and i find this a serious scandal. thank you, sir.
mr president, when we talk about the multiannual budget, it seems as if everyone is discussing the amount of the budget. it's kind of a national hobby that we just look at, "how much money does it cost?" what kind of grocery mentality is that? it seems to be taking over all of europe from the netherlands. this seems very unwise. we need to talk about the content now. because speaking of height, let's just take one very simple number: the dutch government is going to increase its budget by 10% over the next four years. so if we want to talk about money, we'll talk about it. no, we need to talk about the content. what do we want with that budget? and then the commission says: we're going to go 30 percent green. but what exactly does that mean? the first pillar of agriculture must be 'green'. what exactly do we mean by that? in the energy infrastructure sector, we are also talking about greening. but 30% is not green. if you're really talking about making energy infrastructure more sustainable, then there needs to be a lot more money to make sure that we prioritize savings and renewable energy. will the commission do that? finally, the question of iter, you are now putting it out of the budget. but does this mean that no additional eu money is going to that project? i want to hear that from mr barroso.
in writing. the proposal for the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 is not modest, as the european commission suggests. comparison of the 2007-2013 framework with the 2014-2020 proposal shows that the amounts increase by 11,0%. barroso's claim that the budget will no longer cost the citizens is therefore questionable. secondly, the european commission wants a financial transaction tax and a tax based on vat as new sources of revenue. this may seem attractive to governments because taxes replace part of national contributions. i call on the member states not to fall for this. the new taxes mean in practice higher burdens for businesses and citizens. those who advocate such taxes should not think that they represent the people. the revenue from a financial transaction tax must also be paid into the national treasury. the governments have had to bail out the banks and the member states in need. and why the new taxes? because the eu wants to spend more on things like the europe 2020 strategy. this concerns in particular the labour market, which is a matter for the member states. the budget of the european union can therefore be much more flexible!
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sommer, the other shadow rapporteurs, the hungarian presidency and the european commission for their willingness to reach this compromise at the second reading. we have taken very big steps for 500 million consumers in europe towards much greater clarity and clarity about what is in their food. i am also glad that the liberal line has been maintained, not to tell consumers what they should and should not eat, but to give them the information on the basis of which the consumer can decide for himself what to eat. that will not be enough, so adequate attention will have to be paid to the importance of healthy nutrition in schools as well. let me emphasize two other elements. the first is the obligation to finally include vegetable oils on the labelling. finally, consumers can see what oils are behind the vague label "vegetable oils", so that producers can no longer sneak in certain unsustainable oils. the second element concerns trans fats. i am absolutely confident that with this compromise we can finally even get to a ban on the presence of artificial trans fats in food and that would be a great step forward. finally, i saw the commissioner reading his story from his ipad. in the future, let's see if we can also use new technologies to inform consumers about what's in the food, so that we don't just depend on those paper labels.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. chairman, yes, mr. dalli, i brought you cake. why would you do that? today is dolly the sheep's birthday. the world's first cloned mammal is celebrating its 15th birthday, posthumously, though, because the cloned sheep died in 2003. dolly deserves to be congratulated. 93% of all cloned animals are born dead or terminally ill. so dolly's six years of life are worth congratulating. the european commission's failure to legislate on cloning technology for 15 years is a failure. food from cloned animals, 15 years after dolly's birthday, is still being marketed, and unlabelled cloned food is coming onto the market. so no information for the consumer. what's on the label? no trans fats, which are bad for your health. the nutritional value per 100 grams is also in danger of disappearing. manufacturers may indicate per portion. this is misleading to the consumer. then the origin: only fresh meat, not pre-packaged meat, milk and dairy. so, it's nice to keep dragging those animals through europe. no clearly visible information for consumers on energy, fats, sugars and salt. it's going to be somewhere in the back. finally, europe chooses not to make unstunned ritually slaughtered meat available to consumers. this makes dutch legislation a farce. nothing about putting the consumer first. i think the new food labeling rules on dolly's birthday certainly don't deserve a round of applause.
i am also grateful to the rapporteur, mr president, and i am sure that this legislation will improve the information available to european consumers. but i'm still a little concerned about fake products. take this cheese pizza, for example. at first glance, it looks quite tasty, but only when you study the ingredients list do you realize that the edammer cheese used is not cheese at all but a mixture of cheese, water, cream, and vegetable fats. enjoy your meal! the compromise reached with the council now requires each producer to indicate which substitute product has been used. i see you nodding your head, commissioner, but how does that work out in practice? i am afraid that in practice it will only mean that vegetable oil will be added to this pizza. that is not going to do the consumer any good, because they will think of olive oil rather than fake cheese. i prefer a more rigorous approach with plant-based cheese substitutes, for example. that seems clearer and better to me. in short, i have yet to see if the present compromise will be effective in practice. this will also depend on strict enforcement and control in the member states. i therefore intend, commissioner - you know this in advance and have been warned - to ask the commission in the coming years how this legislation is being complied with in the member states. anything with cheese on it should have real cheese in it. if it is not, the consumer should know. i hope that this legislation will do that, but if it does not, we will certainly ask you to take a more stringent approach.
mr president, as you have already noted, we are dealing with a sensitive subject which is also being discussed in the groups, namely the possible re-authorisation of animal meal. the commission has also proposed that the use of animal meal be restricted to certain areas of the community. of course, the re-authorisation of such animal meal must never again lead to such abuses. that is why we are talking only about feeding non-ruminants, not of course animal meal of our own species, and about control, because now - and this is the big difference with the discussion of a few years ago - there are tests that can distinguish between the types of animal meal we are actually talking about. under these conditions, the partial lifting of the ban on animal meal is justified. not only justified, but desirable. from an animal welfare point of view, it is desirable, because chickens and pigs are omnivores and on a plant-based diet alone they actually get suboptimal nutrition. good animal protein is used in such a case, instead of being thrown away or misused as it is at present. the eu is only 30% self-sufficient in protein crops for animal feed. we have to import 42 million tons a year. the reuse of animal meal can hopefully reduce that dependence a little bit. in short, support for the european commission's approach, but only under the right conditions and under strict control.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr grabarczyk, for his report. i wish him a good time in cooperation with parliament and of course i thank the rapporteur for this report. i hope that tomorrow parliament will give its consent to this agreement on crossborder enforcement of traffic offences. that would be a welcome development after such long and arduous negotiations, because this legislation does improve european road safety. i hope therefore that there will not be bremser in this house tomorrow, as mrs lichtenberger has just said to the council. the agreement has our support because the european commission has come out with a written statement recognising that member states can choose to apply a system of licence plates or driver liability in enforcement. that was very important to me. german attempts to stop the responsibility of the markers were unacceptable. that would mean that germans, for example, could race on our motorways from the border to the coast, and that is certainly not the intention. this new legislation will ensure that speedsters can no longer go about their business in foreign countries with impunity. the european road safety can really take a step forward tomorrow. i hope very much that this report will be adopted by this parliament and that it will not stumble over all kinds of institutional futility.
the party for freedom is in favour of improving road safety, but we do not see any intention of using personal data at european level to collect fines. the collection of fines is a national matter and where the need exists, countries can already work together bilaterally to tackle notorious speedsters. that is why we certainly do not give carte blanche to any country to randomly request privacy-sensitive personal data from dutch citizens. we, the party for freedom, are therefore opposed to this proposal. if it turns out that in practice there are disproportionately many motorists from another member state committing road traffic offences in one member state, those member states may conclude bilateral agreements, as is already the case.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. - mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties i want to send a clear message. there are three criteria that body scanners must meet. the freedom of choice (you can't be forced to go through that machine), the storage of data (no storage of data and no need to take pictures of people that security personnel are looking at in little rooms down the street) and no x-rays. the latter is crucial to the health of the european. these devices aren't just at airports. for example, these devices are also in the courthouse in paris, and i am sure they will be in many more places. that is why the european parliament and the european commission must set out clear rights for europeans and clear criteria to be met by these machines. we must not listen to the commercial that says: "we're making devices that work with x-rays". no, we have rules for that. i am glad to see that the european commission is now proposing legislation to ban x-rays and to guarantee that freedom of choice. i would also like to know what the data storage and the photographs are. what i am very disappointed about is that you still choose to implement this decision as a kind of technical decision in comitology and that you come with proposals before we have even had a chance to vote on the european parliament's involvement. i would expect you to give us full consent because this is not just a technical decision. this is about security, but it's also about the privacy of citizens. the debate about whether these are machines we really need, and whether this will bring security to airports, that's a debate i'd like to have with you. what i am concerned about now is that if people think it is necessary, it should be done properly, but i have my doubts about the necessity.
mr president, i should like to thank mr leichtfried for his question. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs put in its report that when you decide not to go through a body scanner, for whatever reason, it should not be a reason to think there is something is wrong with you, and that you should then undergo a security check on a similar level of effectiveness to the machine. in no way should this be an indication that there is something wrong with you. to make another point, we also have been very clear on not going for profiling. i sympathise with your fears, mr leichtfried, but in our report that is clearly taken care of.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). for years and years, all sorts of attempts have been made to get companies to take care of this themselves, but unfortunately, very little has been achieved. the increase is now only half a percent a year, which means it will be at least another 50 years before 40 percent of board seats are held by women. in my own country, the netherlands, last year the increase in the number of women at the top of all the listed companies combined was exactly one woman. commissioner reding sees this problem and decided last march to take stronger action. if companies do not come up with credible plans to have 30% women at the top in 2015 and 40% by 2020, then binding measures will follow. i have a lot of respect for that. it is up to us to support commissioner reding fully in this. we have a chance to show that we mean business. i would be very sorry if parts of the epp and alde groups voted against the heart of this report. it would have been better not to have drawn up the whole report, because it would have undermined the commissioner's credibility instead of supporting it. we must all seize this opportunity with both hands. if i give birth to a daughter in august, i am counting on all of you to help me ensure that she grows up in a world where the business world is open to her, although of course she can always become a member of the european parliament.
mr president, if it is up to the commission and parliament, quotas may be introduced in the future to ensure that at least 40% of management positions in industry are held by women. it is absurd that the european union should interfere with such quotas in the personnel policy of companies. i wonder how many women are really waiting to be promoted to the top of a company as a result of this policy. i would certainly like to thank you for it, because i do not want to leave any doubt that i have reached the top on my own strength and on the basis of my qualities, and so there are many women with me. we must ensure that women have the same opportunities as men, but quotas are a ridiculous idea. there is only one relevant criterion for whether a person should be given a job, and that is whether he is the best candidate for the job. male or female, gender is irrelevant. it is up to the industry itself to determine personnel policy and this is certainly not a european matter. we therefore find it unacceptable that the netherlands will soon be forced to adopt a quota for women by the european union. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
thank you for your question. i don't think that's the point. once again, we believe that women should be elevated on the basis of their own qualities. i would feel deeply undervalued as a woman if i knew that i had reached that top job because of a quota. what about your self-esteem?
mr president, we have just heard the worst speech ever by a new president. this mr tusk seems to have no understanding whatsoever of what is going on among europeans and among the dutch. the netherlands has no intention of supporting unemployed poles, mr tusk, and we have no intention of paying greek pensions, mr tusk. what we also don't want are romanian beggars and swindlers making our streets unsafe, mr tusk. we do not want north african fortune seekers to islamise europe, mr tusk, and we do not want european taxes either, mr tusk. what we also do not want is a turkish membership. what we do want is less europe. what you have done in the past few days, mr tusk, is to criticise the netherlands and my party, the pvv, for being eurosceptic. that is not very clever of you, mr tusk, because poland has received no less than 67 billion euros in european subsidies over the past seven years. 67 billion. and the dutch are paying for it for you, mr tusk. moreover, there are over 100,000 poles working in the netherlands and they send their money to your country, while we are able to support the unemployed poles. you should not be criticizing the netherlands, mr tusk, but thanking them. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, that is not true at all, because the dutch are unemployed, while the poles work below the market and make the dutch unemployed. we pay these benefits, so it's not like we're the only ones who benefit from it. we want to send back to poland the unemployed poles and the poles who cause trouble, and europe is stopping that. i have just been called a racist by mr schulz. i believe that is the second time this year, because my colleague has already been mentioned once. i don't want to accept that, so i'd like to file a complaint against mr. schulz here.
mr president, i have been openly called a racist by mr schulz today. mr schulz has already openly called my colleague a fascist. racism and fascism are things we despise and i want to distance myself from them. i therefore find mr schulz's remark totally unacceptable and i would ask you to take appropriate action against mr schulz. mr schulz is clearly unfit to be president of this parliament and godfrey bloom has punished you for this kind of behaviour before. i therefore ask you to do the same with regard to mr schulz and i would also ask you to give mr schulz the opportunity to apologize to me personally and publicly for his remarks to me.
president. - mr president, in the early 1950s, israel's founding father, david ben-gurion, hoped that regime change in egypt would pave the way to peace with the arab world. he's been openly putting his neck out for that too. it's not working. the nasser regime and other new military rulers in the region turned out to be even more anti-israel than the fallen monarchs. high representative, israeli politicians and analysts fear that the present 'arabellia' (a variant of the arab spring, but more accurate) in 'the gift of the nile' will lead to a historical parallel with the 1950s. the egyptian muslim brotherhood's clout will surely strengthen their influential palestinian allies and block any peaceful rapprochement with the jewish state. does the change of regime in egypt, madam high representative, seem to you to be a positive development for the arab-israeli relationship? for not only the muslim brotherhood, but also secular figures like elbaradei and amr moussa inspire little confidence in israeli observers for the future relations between cairo and jerusalem. the smiling third of the partial arab league is now threatening to become the islamic republic of iran. a true horror, first of all for the region, but equally global. madam high representative, how can europe, together with the united states, prevent this scenario from happening?
president, thank you, mrs ashton, for being here. it is important that when we talk about north africa, we do not forget the situation in south sudan. for that new nation, the glorious saturday of july 9, 2011 is approaching. south sudan is finally becoming independent. we hope and pray for an end to a long period of war and oppression. that independence is a first step on a very long road, for the difficulties for that new nation are not over. - no, it's the opposite. the european union must give its full support to this new country. i am thinking in particular of education and agriculture. they should be given top priority. this will enable the country to become self-sufficient in the long run. it is in these areas that the european union has a great deal of knowledge, and it is in these areas that we must help the new nation to get on its way. but more is needed. omar al bashir has to be stopped. in the abyei region, he is killing civilians. he's started an ethnic cleansing campaign against the ngok-dinka people. it has to stop. my question to you is: what can you do about it? mrs ashton, you know our support for your human rights policy, but my appeal to you is also: vote for the people of south sudan. give that nation all the support it can use, and i'd like to hear your response to my request.
president. - i am very concerned about the situation in syria. this morning, 18 people were killed and 40 injured in the city of hama. the city is surrounded by tanks and armored vehicles of the assad regime. this is just for today and in one city. violence is also raging in other parts of the country. syrian authorities have closed the borders with turkey and lebanon. the border villages are surrounded. thousands of refugees have crossed the border into turkey and thousands more are waiting to do so. these people are trapped like rats right now. turkey has committed itself to taking in the refugees and it is up to the eu to provide this candidate country with all the help it can quickly. there are refugees who have also returned to syria. hundreds of them are missing. i ask the high representative to urge the lifting of the siege of the affected towns and villages and for direct and unhindered access for humanitarian organisations and journalists. the people are standing up for their own rights. the people have lost faith in the regime. they want democracy and change. there are opposition parties and they must be given the opportunity to participate in free elections. mrs. ashton, are you going to press for the situation in syria to be referred to the prosecutor of the international criminal court? do you think the un will adopt a resolution to bring this about? will you be doing this on behalf of the eu?
president, mrs ashton, mr füle, the whole region is on our agenda today, but the main concern we have today is syria. the casualties continue to fall and the syrian authorities are basically on the ground. they've announced reforms, but they're just not being implemented. dialogue is not possible. we have only one instrument as the european union and that is sanctions. but that's not enough to really address the violations of human rights, to really address the killing of people. mrs. ashton, you just said that our embassy in damascus is still there. what can they do? can you tell us that? what more can we do as the european union? what can we do internationally? what can we do about the security council? and what if the security council refers him to the hague criminal court? then we turn to the middle east. what will be the position at the general assembly in september?
i would like to congratulate the european union on its important role in the karabakh conflict and i would also like to give the high representative the nobel prize if she succeeds. madam high representative, can you tell me what role iran is playing? shortly after the failure of the talks in kazan, the speaker of the iranian parliament came forward and said that such a regional conflict should not be solved by the great powers but by the players in the region themselves, because 'they know each other so well'. that's a very humorous note from tehran, of course.
president. - mrs ashton, during the last part-session i insisted on the debate being held today. because we have a good practical cooperation with russia, but there is one thing that is paramount to us, one fundamental value, and that is democracy. i feel that the russian authorities are at the moment doing more to prevent political parties than to pursue genuine democratization and modernisation. technical requirements can and should never be an obstacle to freedom of assembly or the formation of a political party. governments should encourage public debate and the political participation of citizens. i have a question for mrs ashton in this connection. you've heard that boris nemtsov was issued a travel ban by the moscow authorities today, and if so, what are you going to do about it? i call on russia, which is a member of the council of europe, on behalf of my group to adapt the disproportionately heavy legislation on the registration of political parties, as the european court of human rights recently stated in a very nuanced judgment. finally, there is now a motion in the duma to simply ignore the judgments of the european court of human rights. i do not understand what russia thinks it is gaining by withdrawing de facto from the council of europe or simply denying that there is a european court of human rights. i would like to thank mrs ashton for her efforts. i also thank her for the clear position she took earlier. for you, mrs. ashton, and for all of us here, the question is and will be: how can we ensure that fair and honest elections are held in russia and how can we ensure that we can be eyewitnesses to them?
madam president, i will start by saying that i have a dream. i have a dream that russia will one day be a democratic and wealthy country; wealthy not only for a small portion of the people but wealthy for all citizens. each election provides a chance for this. you can use it or you can lose it. i completely agree with the previous speaker in what she said and i will not repeat it. i just wanted to draw your attention to one very important aspect we did not achieve. before the elections, russia needs long-term election observation – not just for a few days in election time – but long term. this is because the people have very limited access to the mass media. we have listened to representatives of the new party, parnas. they told us this situation is very unequal. this is a very important issue for our common future. please, baroness ashton, fight for this long-term observation mission.
mr president, it is clear that the kremlin, the russian authorities, are not attracted to serious opposition, hence the non-registration of parnas on very dubious grounds. i read an interesting interview with one of the co-chairs, kasyanov, the former deputy prime minister of russia, about the motives behind this. he's expecting us to give a signal. we are doing the same with this debate and we will do the same with the resolution tomorrow. i'm all for it. meanwhile, we can speak of a sad continuity in russian history. four years ago, it was already compulsory to vote for a certain party, the party of putin and medvedev. now we're in 2011 and it's happening again. the all-russian popular front was recently established. it is incredible, but all possible bonds are included in it without the members knowing anything about it. zonet has a member of the architect's union who discovered that and protested against it. putin will look into the matter. it is quite clear that we must make it clear to our russian partner that political pluralism is political pluralism and nothing else, also in russia.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic sea region, and has called for the commission to take action to combat the problem. "oh, did i say the ball had to go in the red goal? no, the ball had to go in the blue goal". when a president in africa threatens to serve out his term and is not allowed to run for re-election, he changes the constitution, so he can stay a little longer. if member states in the european union do not get their way in introducing new internal border controls, they change the legal basis. that seems to me a very immature way of working together and solving a problem. the only thing left for us to do is to make it clear to those member states that if they do so we will go to court, that the european parliament will not allow a different legal basis to be established. why are these member states doing this? do we think the danger is coming from outside? that we should turn away those people who want to live in freedom because they are the danger? the economic crisis is not coming from north africa. we are trying to convince the europeans, or member states are trying to convince the europeans, that protecting our internal borders solves something, removes a danger, and that is not the case. if we continue to tell people that, how can we ever honestly tell them that a crisis like the one in greece has to be solved by member states together and how can we honestly tell them that there is actually a huge need for migrant workers to fill jobs in europe? these member states - and among them my own country, the netherlands - are showing that they are not looking ahead, that they are trying to win the first elections, but not to build a sustainable europe.
first of all, mr president, i would like to congratulate the beautiful country of denmark on its great decision to re-introduce border controls. it shows the resolve of a sovereign state within an increasingly intrusive european union which does not accept that a foreign pseudo-power should determine the dangers facing its citizens. crime is crossing borders. it is an illusion to fight it by removing borders. the removal of frontiers creates an oil spill effect whereby crime flows from eastern european member states to the rich western european countries. the reintroduction of border controls is a proven means of a sovereign state to prevent undesirable elements from crossing national borders. a sovereign country has an obligation to itself at all times to defend the interests of its own people in the best possible way. a government that neglects its people at the expense of bandits and bums, ignores its own history and denies the interests of its citizens. whether countries want to introduce effective border controls should be their own choice. the european bureaucrats are currently banning effective border controls. for example, dutch customs officers are required to check only two trains per day and only two train sets per train. of course, enthusiasm for the free movement of persons in the eu member states is steadily declining. let our customs and marshals have the freedom to control as they wish, based on years of experience, empirical research and a sense of urgency. if the european project is really as perfect as the european elite would have us believe, then we won't even need it. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
president. - mr van der stoep, those checks on those trains between belgium and the netherlands are now taking place. two of my employees are experiencing that. one is of dutch-turkish descent, the other is of dutch-surinamese descent. they both have a discoloration and they're both asked for their passports multiple times. they also understood that the marshal's office would let go of the cars that only had blonde people in them and would pick out the cars that had people in them who were not blond, like me. is that the form you would like to see adopted or would you have liked us to have the dutch people at the border to the netherlands waiting until they can cross the border?
i agree with mrs sargentini that such situations are not possible, but the problem is that there are only two train stations that can be checked by train, so what does the marechaussee do? they'll walk by the outside, and unfortunately, they'll pick the train set they think has the best chance of finding illegal immigrants. i am not familiar with these specific situations, but i do not approve of it in any way. i agree with you completely, but the problem is that there is a limitation. if the whole train is checked, this problem won't arise at all. so if you agree with me - and i hope you do - then we can prevent this by simply guaranteeing full openness.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1765/92 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). this dependence was created by the european union itself, including germany and all the other countries, which now want to stop this programme suddenly. it is inhumane to let these 13 million people go hungry now. this is an acute problem which urgently needs to be solved. in the longer term, we can hope that food aid will no longer be needed in europe. it is, of course, scandalous that more than 40 million people are undernourished on a continent as rich as ours. i expect the commission and the member states to do everything possible to reduce poverty by a quarter by 2020, as we have agreed. but even then, it will be another 40 years before poverty is eradicated from europe, and until then people will need food aid. over the past two years, i've visited food banks all over europe, from france to serbia and from iceland to slovakia. some food banks are totally dependent on the european programme, others are not. but they could all use some help. for many of them, food is not so much the problem, but the problem is that they get it from supermarkets, from farmers and from companies. they have been helped mainly with money and expertise for logistics, transport and storage. for the new budgetary period we must examine how best to use european funds to help as many people as possible in poverty. until then, there must be a careful transition period in which we all take responsibility for the 13 million most vulnerable europeans who rely on us.
in writing. − i voted in favour of compromise amendment no 53 to the kastler report ‘on the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations (2012)’, since i fully support the idea of raising awareness of the consequences of population ageing for society, and putting the issue on the political agenda. with regard to eu policies, i strongly believe that policy makers should pay more attention to the issues and challenges that result from population ageing, regardless of the policy field. population ageing should indeed be treated from an overarching and holistic perspective. the consequences of population ageing are too often overlooked or even ignored, in particular those with regard to social security, pension acquirement and eligibility, and (long term) care provision. since the kastler report does not offer effective and long-term solutions with regard to guaranteeing, maintaining, and improving social security – in particular pensions and care provisions – i abstained in the final vote.
author. − madam president, the systematic and widespread practice of rape as a war crime may amount to crimes against humanity, according to the un. the organisation has extended its mission to the drc but, if our conclusion is that the mandate is insufficient to effectively intervene, we must encourage its revision. the un must also carry out an independent inquiry so that we can learn about the scope and the scale of these horrific crimes. the impunity has to end. the international community, as well as the media, have an essential role to prevent sexual violence and to raise awareness. the authorities of the drc must prioritise the ending of violence and of sexual violence in particular. as a result of taboos, victims often do not speak out and, when they do, they risk being excluded from their communities. the fact that there are so many problems in the drc must make us more vigilant and engaged. we must never allow a situation where rape is routine and where hundreds of thousands of people, particularly women, suffer in silence. at home we demand more transparency on the use of conflict minerals. we all use ict products that potentially contain the minerals that fuel the conflicts in the drc.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report, and also the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report. he expressed his sincere satisfaction that the european parliament, our house, was paying attention this afternoon to the acute need of the congolese people, for which he is devoted with all his heart and soul. because international attention, including our attention this afternoon, condemning the impunity of atrocities and uncontrolled violence in eastern congo, together with the visible presence of the un mission munisco on the ground, is really preventive and also breaks the suffocating silence and suffering of the numerous victims of mass rape. is it true, commissioner, that the press report i read yesterday afternoon states that the judicial investigation into the rape has been suspended because of threats of reprisals? that would send a very bad signal, especially to the victims and their families.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the european parliament lists a country on its human rights agenda, that requires that we deal with the facts carefully. a first conclusion drawn from these contacts is that the churches are particularly concerned about areas in the indonesian archipelago with a muslim majority. in the words of an insider, to put it mildly: the church is tolerated, but that can change so suddenly. particularly from java, somber sounds are coming: the commission has also been informed of the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. to underscore this, i quote a church leader from bekasi, west java: "despite a court order allowing us to use our church for worship, the mayor forbade it. that's why we now hold our services in the street, baptize our children and celebrate the sacraments. it's an unsafe, unwanted situation. the radicals want us to capitulate. it could take a long time. local muslims who supported our church are also threatened by radical islamists. we need the support of the international community. there should be freedom of religion for all". the european institutions must convey this urgent message in their contacts with the indonesian authorities, of course, in a nuanced way. for there is no general persecution of christians in indonesia, according to my local sources, who are also grateful for the prevailing freedom of religion. but it is also true "that there is an arabization of islam throughout the country, which is of course of great concern to christians". we must certainly share these concerns and convey them to jakarta.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, indonesia is a beautiful country with deep traditions of pluralism, cultural harmony, religious freedom and social justice, but regrettably we are seeing an increase in extremist attacks against religious minorities, including against the ahmadis, who consider themselves muslim but who are not recognised as such by everyone. we see attacks on christians, buddhists and against progressive civil society organisations. on video clips placed on the internet we have seen well-documented human rights violations when an angry mob set fire to churches, killing a number of people. it is important that the rule of law be upheld and that the perpetrators are held accountable, including when they belong to the security forces. the abusive blasphemy and religious defamation laws must end. initiatives by civil society organisations, as well as the government and the judiciary, are welcome steps. political support for the protection of pluralism is important, and the progress on the implementation of democracy and the rule of law in recent years should be deepened and strengthened. we encourage the government of indonesia to take up recommendations made by the un high commissioner for human rights and to invite the un special rapporteur for freedom and religion and belief to visit the country.
president. - the doha negotiations are not going well. the commissioner has already made this very clear. first, 2010 was designated as the breakthrough year, then it became this year, 2011. but even now the doha round has not been achieved. even a minimum package for the least developed countries does not seem feasible. the failure of doha would damage international trade and promote protectionism. so everyone will have to make concessions to make this round a success. a question i raised almost two years ago in the debate was whether the wto's negotiating system has sufficiently kept pace with globalisation. i think that question remains relevant. of course, the wto is more than doha, but the lack of results is putting the credibility of the wto at risk.
president. - i would like to mention one positive aspect of the doha negotiations. the developing countries could now sit down at the table, they knew what they wanted and they held their feet to the fire. that's the only good thing about it, because they didn't get what they were entitled to. and because we have not done enough together for ten years, a lot of bilateral agreements have been concluded. bilateral agreements between western countries, including the european union, and developing countries are playing off each other. it is important that we work on multilateral agreements, but i am afraid we will not see that in geneva. and why not? because the players at the table, europe with mr de gucht and the wto with mr lamy, have shown for ten years that we are not prepared to give developing countries what they are entitled to. i therefore hope that we will vote in favour of the conclusion of the doha negotiations and the change of the wto.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, thank you for the paper and your strategies. and the other colleagues, thank you for all your input. i think we have a very useful piece here. i think, frankly, it could go a lot further. it's a very important issue. what is not seen when we look at the current economic and financial crisis is that behind it is already the next crisis coming up that we can prevent with a good strategy right now. it's about the scarcity of raw materials, which all emerging economies naturally want, and which is already putting pressure on our future growth after this crisis. what i really like is that there is a lot of attention to this vulnerability of the eu, to our dependence. and it's also good that we focus on our own strength. how do we deal with our own waste? what can we do internally in europe? the call for innovation, which is essential to recycle the raw materials that we have managed to preserve on our own soil. it's just that the innovation has yet to get off the ground. it's not concrete enough yet. what exactly do we mean by that? where is the real paradigm shift that europe is crying out for, especially in response to this financial and economic crisis and in response to the dependence that we have in so many ways? we need a change in behaviour, in industry and among the public. how can we do that? we need a completely different economic model. and i'm not just talking about the governance structures in the banks or in the government. no, i'm talking about really intervening deeply in this economy: for example, a lease-based society, where all products are returned automatically; it is a shift in the tax burden. encouraging, for example, just the little bit needed to buy a better quality, longer lasting, more environmentally friendly product; much stricter ecodesign guidelines. i particularly appreciate your words when you say that we must do everything with respect for nature. because that's very, very important. we often too readily focus on those empty areas, those natural areas which could still be used for mining. but who's to say we don't live on a gold mine in the city? yeah, we're already living on a gold mine of garbage, our urban mining. but maybe we do live on some source of something we can use. so let's look at those areas, and not just the empty ones. all colleagues have put forward good proposals, and i hope they will be implemented, such as the quality label, the chain of custody, chain liability, the good social quality label, attention to illegal shipments from europe and, above all, a lot of innovation.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. and thank you, commissioner tajani, for your comments on this report. it seems like everyone's on the same page. a great strategy to secure raw materials. perhaps i should be a little more specific, because when i compare this report with the original commission report, there are indeed very big differences. i am glad that mr tajani is now happy with the european parliament's report, but this is really a different strategy. i read the commission's report and it is mainly about a struggle with china to get raw materials to europe as quickly as possible. if that doesn't work, then we can mine in europe. and now part three: oh, yeah, we should be a little more efficient with the raw materials, too. that is exactly the wrong order, and this report shows that. we must first of all manage our natural resources, our raw materials, more efficiently. a very simple example is recycling. if we mine one ton, on average, we'll probably find five grams of gold in there. if we look at one ton of electronic waste, there's 150 grams of gold in there. it's a much smarter, cheaper, more efficient way to get our raw materials. it is also - and you are the commissioner for industry - a european industry which must be encouraged, here in europe, to reuse our own raw materials which are already on the market here. that's smart policy. if we are going to mine, it will be in natura 2000 areas. this report makes that very clear. you say that we must take the environment into account. i want to see that more clearly. so we do not want to touch natura 2000 areas. but i also do not want europe to go to the north pole, for example. at least we'll be talking about concrete policy instead of vague words. thirdly: if we do have to import raw materials from outside europe, then it is the contact with developing countries that is at issue. then we can talk about diplomacy. but i would like to see this policy reflected throughout the commission, including the commissioner for trade, mr de gucht. the european union is not a political force, but a political force.
mr president, access to raw materials is of crucial importance to the well-being of european citizens and the situation on the raw materials markets therefore deserves the highest priority. in this context, the eu must ensure transparency, stability and a certain degree of market regulation, always asking how far regulation can go. in addition, the potential of recycling and diversification of sources must be exploited. sustainability is the key word here. european companies must have a responsible purchasing policy, but the european union must ensure that there is a good framework. when the eu proposes legislation on conflict minerals, it is imperative that the ordinary people involved in mineral extraction are not the ones who suffer. the need for raw materials must be met in a way that does justice to the countries of origin in terms of human rights, the environment, fair and open trade and stable markets. it goes without saying that i have great respect and esteem for our rapporteur.
mr president, a great deal has been said about the importance of an effective raw materials strategy for europe. i'd like to make it a little bit more concrete, so i'll take one raw material: phosphate. it's important for the growth of crops. however, in 50 to 90 years, the world's phosphate reserves will be exhausted. and that's while in the same period of time, the world's population grows to nine billion people, who also need to eat. we can continue to talk about this, mr commissioner, but we can also take action, for example by encouraging fertilisation here in the european union. firstly, it produces renewable energy; secondly, it reduces the environmental burden; and thirdly, it produces as a final product a valuable mineral concentrate, also known as digestate, which can replace fertiliser, and thus phosphate. i think that's a win-win situation. you can encourage this innovation by supporting such projects through, for example, the structural funds, rural policy or the greening component of the new common agricultural policy. and also by defining the mineral concentrate as a replacement for fertiliser and no longer, as is the case now, as a primary fertiliser. this is a technical story, but this example of phosphate shows that an effective resource strategy only has a chance if words are translated into concrete actions, however technical they may be. i hope the commissioner is prepared to be as specific as he is and i would like to hear from him whether he will take these steps in the future.
mr president, i had a few more afterburners. i would like to know more about the difference between the commission proposal and the ep proposal, which you say you welcome. that's very nice. but what are the practical measures? we have talked about stockpiling, and frankly, that does not seem to be the solution. i hope you will not take the lead in this, but perhaps you can give a concrete answer. there is a strong focus on purely industrial materials, and there has been a lot of talk about phosphate. i'm all for that. that's very important. how will you ensure that attention is paid to this and to innovation? the original efficiency targets were set, but they've all been taken out. i would like to see an efficiency target similar to the energy targets. we had called for a ban on dumping; that has now been moderated. but i would also like to see that as far as waste is concerned - which you also consider very important - that we do indeed remain on top of that waste in order to be able to process it. so we need to have a landfill ban so that all that material can be put directly into the recycling line. how's the stamp coming? and, last but not least, those tax measures we've been talking about. who will take the initiative? will the eib play a role? and besides, who's gonna coordinate all this? you or mr potočnik with his resource efficiency flagship?
rapporteur. − mr president, i had actually prepared a rather different intervention for today, but things seem to be developing very rapidly. first of all, i think it is regrettable that we are not having a full debate. this is a very important topic. i think this is underlined by the controversy about the report, and therefore i think it would have merited the presence of the responsible commissioner, the council and many colleagues, including the shadows. i am rather unpleasantly surprised by the extreme reluctance – both within the european parliament and the european commission – to evaluate the eu counter-terrorism policies. as a democrat, i think evaluation is an essential part of democracy. it is about transparency, accountability to our citizens and making our policies better and more efficient. i think that a democracy that is unable and unwilling to take a critical look at its own policies is not worth the term ‘democracy’. if we are convinced that we have got it right in our policies, i think we can be confident that they will stand the test. we do not only have a duty to our own citizens, we also have to be a moral compass in the world. frankly, colleagues, i feel that if we are unable to carry out a thorough evaluation of the measures we have taken over the last ten years, we lose all credibility and moral authority, and that is particularly important at the time of the arab spring. how can we look the young people in north africa in the eye and say to them – with credibility – you have to create democracy and the rule of law, respect human rights and live by the principles of accountability and transparency, if we do not live up to that and are unwilling to do it ourselves? i have to say that there is a great deal of controversy around this report; i think this is very regrettable and disappointing. i did expect a controversial debate, but i did not expect it to be quite this acrimonious. we voted in july, but ever since the vote, several members and groups have changed their positions, in some cases by 180 degrees. texts that were agreed unanimously are now being put forward for deletion by several groups. i find that surprising. now let us have a look at the texts that are so incredibly shocking and radical that they have to be taken out. first there is a paragraph – paragraph 26 – that was agreed unanimously (i underline unanimously) by all the political groups, referring to article 70 of the treaty – very shocking, very radical – calling for an evaluation on the basis of that same treaty. there is, for example, a paragraph saying that we should not only address the consequences of terrorism but also the causes; very radical. there is a paragraph calling for impact assessments and proportionality tests; very radical – except it is already compulsory. there is another paragraph referring to proper access to documents: that is the official position of this house! so i have to say i am very surprised by some of the requests for separate votes. however, i do think that in this case – and i will conclude on that, chair – it is much more important that we achieve a result. i will try until the very last moment to bring people together and see if we can arrive at some sort of agreement, because we owe it not to this house, but to our citizens and to the rest of the world.
president, mrs malmström is failing and leaving the external borders of the european union wide open. i would therefore ask mrs malmström: when are you going to do what you're supposed to do? what would you start with? ensure that the eu's external borders are properly guarded! citizens are wondering where frontex is, now that tens of thousands of asylum seekers from north africa have already entered the eu. they cross these external borders without any problems and enter the asylum procedure or the illegal situation. i also ask mrs malmström: when are you going to take on corrupt bulgaria? at the bulgarian border, anyone without papers can buy an eu single ticket. yes, i said buckets, mrs malmström. the dutch ambassador to bulgaria has said that for only 500 euros you are allowed in by corrupt customs officials. of course, border security is of no use if corruption eludes it. what does mrs malmström think? what is mrs malmström going to do about it?
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order. mrs malmström has had many questions from many members, including my own on what she is going to do about corruption at the borders, for example in bulgaria. i have not heard any answer from mrs malmström. she's getting rid of it pretty easy. do you not think that mrs malmström should answer the questions of the members in more detail?
rapporteur. − mr president, with reference to rule 177 of the rules of procedure, i would like to propose to the house that we postpone the vote on the evaluation of eu counter-terrorism policies. although the report was adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in july, it would seem that positions have been shifting in recent days and controversy has arisen over a number of issues. that is very unfortunate considering that the issue is very sensitive. as rapporteur, i worked on a timetable which would have allowed for a plenary vote before the summer break, but the timetable has been slipping. however, what counts in the end is the result; evaluation is a key element of transparency and accountability, and it is important that parliament has a clear and consensual view of what evaluation should include. i believe that with a little more time we may find circumstances more favourable to a common approach and be able to present a result that will command widespread support. i therefore ask the house to support postponement.
in writing. − as there are a number of civilian products and technologies which can also be used for military and terrorist purposes, it is necessary to monitor the export of these products. in order to ensure that this monitoring is carried out properly, a common list of products for which an export licence is to be applied for has been drawn up. the main products concerned are chemicals and building materials. the pvv voted in favour of this proposal because different lists are currently being worked on in different european countries. a common framework should prevent potential buyers from exploiting gaps between member states and 'shopping' in different countries to purchase these products. the additional advantage of a common framework is clarity for dutch exporting companies and fair competition through equal rules for exporting companies from the different countries in europe.
in writing. the pvv is against control and interference from brussels over investment decisions of national credit institutions. national member states are responsible for this. in the netherlands, for example, the 'nederlandse kredietverzekering maatschappij' (dutch credit insurance company) provides loans to dutch businesses. in addition, international agreements have already been concluded: oecd standards are designed to prevent unlawful subsidies and promote fair competition. europe is only too keen to have a hand in imposing additional obligations on export credit institutions in areas such as social and environmental protection. however, if europe imposes such redundant standards, the competitiveness of european industry will be seriously weakened. companies and institutions from other oecd countries, such as the us, canada and turkey, do not have to meet the absurd climate targets that europe is imposing on itself.
in writing. - this report is your european charter. it includes plans for: special grants for women ́; women-friendly financial services; provide basic courses for girls; an eu campaign to promote women's participation in work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. in the document, the european parliament has also been free to point fingers at specific countries (poland) and the situation of specific groups such as the roma. at the same time, not a word is said about the abominable position of a significant proportion of migrant women in muslim circles. the netherlands is not waiting for brussels to interfere in social policy, that is a task for the member states themselves, not for the eu. the netherlands has been pursuing its own emancipation policy for years with projects such as the 'talent programme' and 'eigen kracht', and the netherlands is doing well in the european context. this proposal is absurd in its content and completely unnecessary. the pvv therefore votes against the whole proposal.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, the credit for this report does not belong to me, of course, but to heidi hautala, my former colleague in the group, who is now in the finnish government. in her the finnish government has got a very good minister, but our parliament has lost a champion of openness. it's a privilege to be allowed to take over this wand from her. the hautala report, now the sargentini report, was adopted by the committee on civil liberties in june. this was done by an overwhelming majority, based on a shared awareness that there is still a great deal of transparency in european decision-making. the reflex of secrecy is still very often present, whereas openness should be the starting point. too often citizens themselves have to ask for access to documents that could have been online long ago. too often people still look for information on european websites, whereas all the documents that shed light on decision-making on a subject could also be clearly grouped together. you and i all know what that means for us, too. too often the court and the ombudsman have to call the european institutions to order. and this is despite the fact that the treaty of lisbon obliges us more than ever to make decisions as openly as possible. access to documents and good administration are fundamental rights to which the institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union have been effectively bound since lisbon. it is therefore not helpful, or rather harmful, to european credibility if the council keeps secret documents on its involvement in the legislative process. it is therefore surprising that the commission is still proposing to restrict the definition of 'documents', which would make it easier to keep internal documents under wraps. this secrecy is contrary to the treaty of lisbon. the present resolution therefore calls on the commission to submit a new proposal for a revision of the regulation on access to documents, a proposal which is therefore 'lisbon-proof'. i would like to hear the commissioner's reaction to that. but for greater openness, our parliament does not have to wait for other institutions. we can do it ourselves, as this resolution - hautala/sargentini - says. today, trialogue and mediation are the most opaque part of the legislative procedure, whereas these negotiations are usually decisive for the final outcome. the relevant documents should therefore be published by parliament. this is essential for the press, for civil society and for the interested citizen. they have the right to follow the legislative process closely. for the same reason, parliament's committees should have at least one orientation vote before proceeding to a trialogue with the council and the commission. that should be made mandatory in our rules of procedure. finally, the debt crisis is putting a heavy strain on confidence in the european union. the institutions and the member states are advised not to break any more promises. we must keep the promise of maximum openness, and time is running out.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs (rapporteur: mr de gucht) the imco opinion concerns the karim report. in rotterdam, where i live, i have close contact with a number of shopkeeper associations. they're like a sounding board for me. i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. i would like to know, for example, whether the proposals currently being discussed in the libe committee are feasible, namely on substances which are sold in shops but which could also be used for terrorist purposes. questions like: how can the shopkeeper recognize these substances? how can they control the validity of the licences that customers may need in the future to buy these substances? an example of a kind of informal sme test. the commission does of course carry out formal sme tests in the form of impact assessments, but it gives far too little influence to smes in the phase before that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the questionnaires are also a matter of concern, because the commission makes them too complicated and it is not clear to small selfemployed people what exactly is being done with their contribution. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr karim, for taking up the proposal we made in imco, namely to introduce a mandatory sme test for this parliament after the adoption of legislative proposals at committee level and before the vote in plenary. i hope that after the adoption of this excellent report the bureau will take up the proposal quickly and we can put this procedure into effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i receive daily complaints about the difficulty of obtaining accurate information about what is happening in brussels. the search functions on the european institutions' websites never answer your question, and in general the websites are designed according to the structure of the institutions, not according to the questions that the public has. it is also hard to believe that the commission is more reluctant to provide information in its proposals for 2011 than in 2001. i am also very angry with the commissioner for the fact that the commission has repeatedly refused to answer our questions about the composition and activities of the expert groups. even a plenary debate last time, in which mr šefčovič was unable to be present and was replaced by mr karas, where we asked oral questions, did not lead to clarity. we haven't had any answers to any of our questions. that directly affects our democracy. but the council also refuses to give the citizen a say in the decision-making process. while everyone is talking about europe at the moment because of the euro crisis, the citizen is not getting any information about what is really going on in the euro negotiations. i also think that the negotiations and the trialogue, as mrs sargentini has already said, are often only a matter of tweets. but other than that, these are black boxes. the ep refuses to participate in backroom politics and makes the documents public. negotiations can be held in public, or at least a state of play should be announced after each round. all these issues are also mentioned in the sargentini report and i hope that it will be adopted by consensus.
i would like to thank the honourable members for the good proposals which are before us and which i wholeheartedly support. the will to improve is always good, of course. we want a competitive europe with better legislation and less administrative burden. as a politician, i am in favour of more transparency in the creation of regulations, but as a lawyer and european citizen, i think that the practical effect is perhaps even more important. so i have three things to improve on. first, the methodology. for example, the way in which amendments are made: they are often based on national sentiments, but they end up making the legislation complex and illegible. secondly, we still base 80% of our european legislation on directives, which eventually lead to a patchwork of national transposition because they are transposed too late or differently in different countries). i am in favour of, with many experts, basing more legislation on regulations that work directly and ensure a better level playing field. finally, i would like to advocate that we communicate our legislation better to our citizens, that they know why we are working here and that they are also interested in it.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to refer to the treaty of lisbon, article 1. the treaty of amsterdam, which was signed in brussels on 1 january, is a new stage in the building of the union, in which decisions are taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen. the problem in the debate we have had today on access to documents is that neither the council nor the commission has taken as their starting point 'everything is open unless there are reasons not to be open'. they, on the other hand, assume that "everything is closed, and perhaps we will open it". the percentage which the president of the council indicated today, namely that 75% of the council's documents have been opened in the end, is a good percentage but it is a wrong-way approach. it would be a very different policy if we started with "publicity is the foundation". if the commission respects the lisbon treaty and also sees opportunities for improvement, why did we have to wait 15 months for proposals? you say the definition of documents is not being updated, but i didn't think we were going to negotiate here. but i think this house has its doubts about that. i would like to give two examples where i think the council and/or the commission are not ultimately respecting the lisbon treaty. i refer to article 218 of the treaty of application, which says that parliament must have an insight into negotiations with third parties, international negotiations. let's take the acta debate, for example. it's not happening there. i would like to give the polish presidency a second example. there is an inquiry into the errors in the european arrest warrant, as my colleague mr hautala has also stated in his working papers, but the council does not make it public. i think it was a very good exchange of views, but i wish my colleague mr cashman all the best and i promise him our help in improving access to documents in the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues mr seeber and mr skylakakis for putting this question, and also to thank the commissioner for replying. i should like to point out to my colleague mrs auconie that, though we keep stressing the need for changes to benefit the economy, we should be clear that, as achim steiner said today in mexico, by tackling black carbon we are not only addressing climate change but also improving our air quality. if you look at the health co-benefits we are talking about the possibility of saving billions of euros by reducing our black carbon emissions, so it is not only environmentally but also economically a very clever thing to do. we really should bear that in mind. i have a question for the commissioner as regards black carbon, which was specifically mentioned by achim steiner, because while we say it is very important we know that in europe around 50% of black carbon emissions come from domestic combustion. what kind of measures are you thinking of taking to address that? also, 20% of black carbon emissions come from non-road machinery, and we know that this year the commission – albeit not your dg, commissioner – proposed lower emission limits and greater flexibility in that area. so can we expect more surprises when it comes to black carbon? we know aviation will be covered by the emissions trading scheme in the coming year, but does the commission have any specific plans concerning the issue of the formation of contrails and cirrus? we know that these can have a huge different impact on climate change as well, especially along aircraft flight paths, and the issue could be addressed in cooperation with meteorological institutes. finally, what can we expect on nox emissions by the aviation sector, because action was promised in 2008, and we are still anxiously waiting for a proposal from the commission?
mr president, this whole case is a load of lies and deception. let's say that. greece is going bankrupt, we all know that. mr barroso is still living in another world, but he too knows in his heart that there is no longer any hope of recovery, that all the aid given to greece is evaporating and that the citizens of europe have been cheated here. it started with the accession of greece. the deception was already there, and they knew it. this was known in this house, and was also admitted by mr de gucht, the commissioner at the time. the commitments of the stability pact have not been respected and the population is also constantly being lied to about the aid measures. because the money's not coming back. mr. verhofstadt, you are right. this monetary union cannot work. but if you're wondering how we got into this position, look at yourself. your party was there when this euro was introduced and when this monetary union, which cannot function, was created. you're responsible for yourselves. your parties are responsible, so don't tell me who's responsible. you are. the people are forgotten. nobody wants this, and nobody asked to be put in this position. it is a shame that the greeks are in this position. it's a shame that we're in this position. the people do not want this, and this monetary union must be dissolved as soon as possible.
the confidence in europe's ability to solve its debt problems seems to be waning further, and this is now affecting our fragile economic recovery. the euro is our common currency. the common currency that mr madlener wants. but he is not willing to learn the hard lesson that only joint solutions will work. the six-pack contains a radical reform of our common governance in europe. i am optimistic and i have confidence, perhaps more confidence than mr verhofstadt, in the flexibility of the council to take the last of the hordes. because we have to approve the six-pack this month and then move forward decisively. a strong role for the commission as an independent authority and democratically accountable to the council and to this parliament. president barroso, you must show more initiative in further strengthening the european institutional structure. strengthening our competitiveness is also important. because unemployment, youth unemployment, is rising and we need to send an important signal to our citizens: the eib has to put the eu 2020 agenda into practice, to provide project bonds, to encourage investment. it is also a question of the commission's persistence, because our smes, our entrepreneurs, face many obstacles that would have long since disappeared under european legislation. our single market must become a reality.
the large debts of many member states are at the heart of this crisis. italy has a debt of 130% of gdp and ireland's budget deficit is 10%. greece has the worst record: the debt ratio is 157% of gdp and the budget deficit is almost 8%. the burden of the greek hero atlas was lighter. greece can never pay off that debt, and so that debt must be written off in part. the participation of private parties is also well regulated. the greek economy also needs a recovery plan to pay off the remaining debt, and the greeks must make a full effort to collect taxes. if these measures are not taken very soon, greece will have to leave the euro. the euro is a quality currency, and this requires discipline and determination, such as being able to deal effectively with debt and prevent bankruptcy.
how do we, mr president, win the confidence of the financial markets in weak euro countries? by cutting back and reforming. both are painful but indispensable for sound finances, improved competitiveness and sufficient earning power. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not distorted and that the political process is guided by a correct and consistent policy. but a real solution requires more. a number of euro countries have high external debt. this is linked to the imbalances in the trade and balance of payments. a dutch professor advocates a new bretton woods agreement that should balance this, for example by regulating the financial sector from financing high trade deficits of other countries. does the commission and the council see this as a good proposal to reduce this structural imbalance? a second short question: what is the council's view of the dutch proposal to strengthen budgetary discipline?
president, at this time last year the european parliament was trying to get clarity on the 60 million euro that the commission had promised libya for measures to keep migrants out, in particular to protect the southern border of libya so that migrants did not come to libya, and therefore not to europe. we tried to point out that these are often refugees, people from dictatorships in sub-saharan africa. and now it has. look at the people who are still left in tunisia and egypt, who have fled libya, who cannot go home: somalis, eritreans, ethiopians, sudanese, they are refugees. there's about 5,000 left. i would ask the commission, but above all the council: can europe not resettle these people in europe? my second question to the commission is: what happened to the 60 million euros we gave libya for things we knew were wrong?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, even in the face of the most horrific crimes in syria, the eu finds it difficult to speak with a strong and united voice. in syria, snipers are shooting people for holding a cell phone, children are tortured to death, the government is turning off water, electricity, food and medicine supplies to entire cities, censorship and misinformation are rampant, and cell phone networks and internet are down. people are slaughtered and buried in mass graves, while the families are forced to state that these murders were the work of so-called thugs. ghayath mattar, a human rights defender and activist for a peaceful transition in syria, was tortured to death this week. the people who attended his funeral were shot at by state security forces. surely this was the work of thugs – thugs of the syrian state apparatus which no longer has any credibility or legitimacy. let us not forget that the number of 2 600 estimated deaths refers to a father, a mother, a brother, a sister, a friend, a spouse or a child each and every time. the crime? speaking out peacefully for justice, rights, opportunities and self-determination. meanwhile, the eu is not leveraging its weight. as syria’s most significant trade partner, now is the time to impose further targeted sanctions. we must also explicitly force the economic elites who are in al-assad’s camp to make a choice. doing business with the eu means breaking with al-assad, and al-assad must be held accountable for his deeds. the acts of the syrian regime remind me of the iranian regime’s acts, and we have strong reasons to believe that they are providing tools and know-how, but we must not allow the same to happen as in iran in 2009 – for the people to be further crushed and oxygen, freedom and opportunity for a brighter future to be squeezed out of society even more. people look to the eu to act as a global player. and the eu? it stares at its own navel. the eu must liaise much more intensely with candidate member state turkey to act sensibly towards syria. while we welcome the shelter provided for refugees, i want to highlight that it is regrettable that prime minister erdogan did not mention syria at the arab league in cairo yesterday. even though i appreciate the presence of comissioner füle and minister dowgielewicz here, we would have liked to have seen catherine ashton here before this house today to discuss the eu’s foreign policy and the urgent situation in syria in particular. i can only hope that her absence does not reflect the broader absence of the eu and the eas on the ground at this crucial moment in time, but i am worried that it does. i sincerely hope that the polish presidency will use this momentum of an all-time low to revive and strengthen europe in the world. process and results must not be confused.
president, the assad regime has lost all legitimacy. we can't stand it anymore that over 2,600 people have died and the whole world is watching and doing nothing but boycotting oil. what we should be doing, and not just in europe, is taking further measures that hit the regime, but that make sure that the citizens are not hit. that's point one. secondly, we must ensure that more is done at the un level than is currently the case. the third point is the international commission. the un will send international observers and i assume that the delegation of observers can really do good work there with all the european support.
president, after much deliberation, the eu adopted more sanctions against the syrian regime at the beginning of september. i ask the minister, and through him mrs ashton: when are we going to see the results of these sanctions? because we are still hearing very worrying reports from syria day after day. they keep coming. on monday, the un high commissioner for human rights reported that some 2,600 people had been killed since mid-march. on tuesday, amnesty international announced that at least 95 people, including many activists, had died in syrian prisons under suspicious circumstances. more than 13,000 refugees have crossed the border and others trying to escape are violently stopped by syrian troops. humanitarian aid is being blocked. in the debate with mrs ashton in july i asked her to urge the un security council to have an independent inquiry into human rights violations. i am glad that a un resolution was adopted in august which allows for such an inquiry. but it still doesn't seem to be enough for the assad regime. what are you and mrs. ashton planning to do next? are there going to be more sanctions against the syrian regime? is it true that very soon there will be a ban on european investment in the syrian oil sector? and, in addition to imposing economic sanctions, what is the european union going to do to help the syrian civilian population?
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as a co-signatory of the oslo ii accords, the european union committed itself to the negotiating process between the parties to the conflict in the middle east. my question is: why are the eu member states now hesitating to speak out jointly, in a timely and clear manner, against a flagrant breach of this clear international obligation by one of the parties to the treaty? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to know from the council what the european union thinks of the announcement by the president of the palestinian authority, mr mahmoud abbas, that if the palestinians succeed in the united nations, they will use that international standing against israel with the help of un bodies such as the international court of justice. i have serious doubts whether the peace process in the middle east, which we are all longing for, is really working. secondly, i would like to draw the attention of both the council and the commission to the worrying verbal aggression on the part of turkish dignitaries, which is increasing tensions in the middle east region. what is the council's and the commission's view of turkey's rejection of the legality of the naval blockade of the gaza strip? see the un or the palmer report. and what do they think of prime minister erdogan's announcement, or threat, of an increased presence of the turkish navy in the eastern mediterranean basin? we are talking about the most audacious act of a country acceding to the european union. i was particularly struck by prime minister erdogan's accusation that the israelis interpret any criticism as anti-semitic. please note: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. you can't be proud of a country where anti-semitism is the norm, can you? that is what a representative of the jewish minority said to me on the telephone in turkey. and when the turkish foreign minister speaks in one breath of the arab spring and an israeli autumn, are we still talking about the peace process and the turkish contribution? i find that deeply sad. i hope that the council will take a position on this and the commission will also.
president. - in june i asked mrs ashton what she would do about a european position on the palestinian request which was coming up. the eu is divided over whether to grant that request in the short term. but there is also a profit, because there is agreement on the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as a shared capital. i understand the palestinians very well. i understand their desire for quick recognition, because negotiation is impossible. not only are there too many settlements, but they are just continuing to be built despite all the pleas not to. that means that in the future, when the palestinian state is recognized after negotiations, it will be a patchwork of states which cannot be governed and therefore have no right to exist. we need mr abbas to go home with a good story later. we can't leave him here empty-handed. we europeans must ensure that there is a compromise, that there is a solution. we must improve the status of the palestinians. in the middle east, israel is now completely alone - and mr belder cannot deny that. and that hurts, a lot of pain, especially for me, raised as a benevolent european with a great sympathy for the promised land. but we must recognize that patience is running out, that something really needs to be done now. it cannot go on any longer and that is why a compromise from the europeans is badly needed.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the palestinian authority is threatening to have the united nations declare a palestinian state next week. i do not think that such a unilateral step will bring a peaceful solution any closer. - no, it's the opposite. the european union is one of the main funders of the palestinian authority and europe must use that instrument to force abbas to return to the negotiating table. solutions to the process are made at the negotiating table and that requires efforts from all parties. that call now applies specifically to the palestinians. a similarly great threat to peace in the middle east at the moment is turkish prime minister erdogan. he's eager to restore the ottoman empire and he's using tough warfare. he is threatening turkish warships to break the legitimate naval blockade of the gaza strip. the un rightly said that turkey should have prevented the gaza flotilla from exporting in 2010. the turkish government has left that behind. erdogan is now echoing this failure by threatening israel and pushing for the creation of a palestinian state. this man is a clear threat to peace in the middle east. this is another reason not to take him seriously as a partner in the negotiations and to put a definitive stop to turkey's accession to the european union. (the president declared his readiness to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to ask mr van dalen, mr president, why it is not the settlements which are keeping anyone out of the negotiations, and why the blame - and the foreign ministers say so too - is on israel and not on the palestinians. can you explain that to me? how do you see these settlements?
i would like to ask the president-in-office if she would have listened to my speech. she wouldn't have asked that question. i have made two points: firstly, the debate is currently centred on the palestinian authority, which is pushing for the establishment of a palestinian state, thereby jeopardizing the process and potentially promoting all kinds of escalation. and secondly, i have also said that all the parties must return to the negotiating table because that is where a solution must be found to all the problems that exist. i made that clear.
mr president, i did not get an answer to my question. i wanted to know what the effect is of the settlement policies of the israelis. i did not get that answer either in his speech or in his answer now.
i have made it clear in my speech that they must sit down together at the negotiating table to discuss all the problems. the negotiating table will then have to decide on one of the points. because this is just one of a large number of points, mrs oomen-ruijten, which need to be discussed. that is where this issue must be discussed and not by a roundabout way, through the united nations and the declaration of a palestinian state.
- a writer. - mr president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a euro crisis, and this is of course primarily caused by irresponsible behaviour on the part of financial institutions, but there are also structural causes. economic developments in the european member states are very different. this is not only due to different levels of innovation and labour productivity, but it is very striking that in all the member states that are doing less well, corruption is a major problem. we as a group of like-minded meps had an excellent dialogue with commissioner malmström on the urgency of fighting corruption. i thank her for that and i thank her for the proposals in this area, which i very much welcome. however, as regards the current situation, can the commissioner tell me what role she plays in the discussions on the rescue of countries like greece? is there a master plan to eradicate corruption in this country, but also in ireland, portugal, spain and italy, for example? or will we continue to pay lip service to this policy area in practice? as far as i am concerned, commissioner malmström is playing a leading role in the negotiations on aid to euro countries in difficulty, where corruption is a major problem. let me summarize it again: corruption hinders a well-functioning and fair tax system and creates an informal economy that does not contribute to the public treasury and thus to the public interest. public services such as health care and education are not accessible to all if there is corruption in those sectors, and this makes the establishment of a knowledge economy much more difficult. i would like to hear from the commissioner what concrete plans there are now for fighting corruption in the weak euro countries. finally, another question to the commission, also urgent. what is the status of the commission's report under the un convention against corruption? the commission must set the member states a good example in this respect. are there still problems of internal coordination or is this being tackled in a rushed manner? despite these remarks, i would like to support commissioner malmström's policy wholeheartedly and i am confident that she will also play an important role in the areas i have mentioned.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european union has done far more than its fair share of relief efforts, and i commend the commission for the commitment that the eu has shown to bringing food, water, medical care and shelter to the thousands of people suffering. there are three points i would like to highlight here. first, there is a direct link between catastrophes and failed states. it is the total lack of a structure and a well-functioning state in somalia that prevents the population from having access to basic services. it is appalling that the european union still has no coherent vision of how to deal with fragile and failed states although these states should be a priority in our external action and development policy. second, we need to strengthen the link between humanitarian aid and development policies, as the commissioner rightly said. in northern kenya, shortly before the summer, i saw families digging for water with their hands in dry river beds – water for these pastoralists and for their herds of goats. it is one thing to bring relief to these thousands of people in need but what these populations need even more is the follow-up with the necessary infrastructure: water pumps, schools, solar panels, health clinics, roads and the like. the eu could do much better securing the link between emergency action and long-term development efforts. that brings me to the third point. these long-term efforts also need to come from national authorities in the horn of africa. for instance, the government of ethiopia is reluctant to help the pastoralists who lead their nomadic life with their herds. pastoralists are seen as old-fashioned and should, in the official view, move to cities or sedentarise, but sedentarisation is no option in arid and semi-arid areas. these people, these pastoralists, bring an essential part of food, protein, to the population and secure an important part of economic life. they are the only people who can make a living in these arid areas too poor in vegetation to allow herds to stay in one spot. the eu should, in its dialogue with governments, stress the need to recognise the legitimate demands of these courageous populations, and the eu should fight food speculation and land-grabbing.
mr president, i have been racking my brain over what i can say in one minute about such a famine. i'm actually a little embarrassed about it. so what i want to say in that one minute is this. there was no longer any question of a balance, even a shaky balance, in the horn of africa. war and climate change are causing this kind of famine. what strikes me is that if we have to vote in this parliament on tightening our standards on co2 emissions, so as to reduce global warming, our wallets are closer than the mouths of the citizens of the horn of africa. that we are voting for short-term economic gain in europe and forgetting that people in dry areas are only getting worse. that's what i wanted to say in my one minute on this hunger, and i'm missing everybody so much.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i have just returned from the plenary session of the euronest parliamentary assembly, which, as you all know, took place without the contribution of our belarusian colleagues. this is a great pity for the whole euronest process, but it is above all a disgrace for the people of belarus. there is only one person to blame for this, and that is president lukashenko and his regime. a few weeks ago, the same president announced the release of all political prisoners and the holding of a round table in belarus. is lukashenko really getting a little nervous now that the economy of belarus is in recession or is it old wine in new bags? in any case, ales bialatski has not noticed it yet. fortunately, this parliament continues to put pressure on the regime of president lukashenko, and i hope we will continue to do so as long as that does not change. but isolation and condemnation are not enough. we must also reach out to the people, as many of you have already advocated.
- a writer. - the president, mrs malmström and i met yesterday on the occasion of the commemoration of the 10th anniversary of dawit isaak's imprisonment in eritrea. dawit isaak is a swedish eritrean, an activist for democracy in eritrea. we do not know what his fate is, but we must reflect on it because we must not forget that he is in prison there and so are his fellow prisoners. eritrea is what i call the north korea of africa. it is a country from which people want to flee and they do so in large numbers. not just because of the hunger, as you see in the horn of africa now, but because of the oppression. young men go into the army and never get out. military service is basically the same as slavery. we see eritrean refugees popping up all over europe. i saw them when i was in athens looking at the refugee situation. i saw them when i was in tunisia a few months ago, to look at the refugee camps on the border with libya. who can't go home? who's left? that's the eritreans. we must continue to put pressure on the eritrean regime, but that is extremely difficult, since the authorities there do not seem to be interested in money. so keeping money away from them is not a punishment. we have not only to put pressure on the regime, but we also have a duty to be generous to eritrean refugees. i urge the admission of eritrean refugees in camps in tunisia and also in egypt, who are stranded in the sinai en route to israel. we must shape our own refugee policy in europe so that eritreans will never again have the chance of being sent back to the north korea of africa.
i thank you, mr president, commissioner, and i congratulate mrs matias on her report. if we were to talk as much about the growth agenda, immediately after the crisis, as about the crisis itself, then this must really be an explosion. unfortunately, i think it's not going to happen, because somehow the growth agenda, the innovation agenda, is not on the map enough. yes, thankfully, with you, commissioner, but not with everyone. we always talk about research as the source of growth, but it's not just research, it's the whole of society, it's a mindset, it's above all the business climate. yes, we must sow growth, but that does not mean we must go to waste. and we have to sow the right way. what does that mean, "i'm not"? don't stare at research. the commission has also been very active in the area of the environment, and has been very active in the area of the environment. yes, the internal market, creating the right framework for consumption and the common strategic framework. yes, 'common', but then together with the whole commission and all the member states. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, we have a proposal to give trade advantages to producers of agricultural and fishery products in the palestinian territories. i shall vote in favour of this so that palestinian farmers and fishermen can make a living more easily. but we should not link the whole middle east conflict directly to this proposal. we are now seeing that happen in the committee on international trade. there is another dossier, namely an agreement between the european union and israel on standards in the pharmaceutical industry. it is astonishing that some colleagues are trying to block this agreement in order to put pressure on israel to accept the unilateral actions of the palestinian authority at the united nations. i think that is an example of double standards and i think that is totally irresponsible and unacceptable. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party mr president, it goes without saying that i wish the agricultural and fisheries sectors in the palestinian territories the best. that is why i have no difficulty with this agreement. but - colleagues have already said - what i have a great deal of difficulty with is the blockade that the left wing of this parliament has been putting up against the trade agreement with israel for over a year. i still find the rapporteur's explanatory statement problematic, though. she told me in the inta committee that she would not change anything. it's been done. but i still see some serious inaccuracies. i would like to name four, very specifically, because they actually tarnish the name of israel and are irrelevant to this report. first of all: palestinian exporters themselves choose to cooperate with israeli export facilities and companies because of the corruption in jordan and egypt. secondly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the regulation on products from the settlements. thirdly: the palestinian authority has chosen voluntarily to be part of the customs envelope with israel because of all the benefits it now enjoys from all the customs agreements israel has with third countries. finally, mr president, apart from investors from iran or arab countries which do not have official relations with israel, it is possible for any investor to obtain a visa, contrary to what the rapporteur claims.
president, taiwan is undoubtedly a world player. it's the 22nd largest economy in the world. taipei has strong relations with china and the united states and is an important partner of the european union. unfortunately, and i have seen this myself on the ground the eu is not making the most of the potential of the taiwanese market. the island is the ideal springboard for european companies to enter the chinese market. in fact, intellectual property is much better protected in taiwan than on the mainland. in addition, taiwan is the european union's most important industrial partner. in short, the upgrading of this relationship with a free trade agreement or trade-promotion measures is highly desirable. i hope the commission will also be able to convince the member states of this. we must not be guided by fear of a possible political price that china will demand. after all, beijing has also concluded a trade agreement with taiwan. president. - i sometimes wonder how free the european union is still in relation to taiwan, because of all the fear of china.
mr president, this new european policy framework, a european tourism policy, is another typical example of europe's attempt to gain more power at the expense of the member states. as far as the party of freedom is concerned, tourism policy is the primary responsibility of the national member states. since when have member states been unable to implement tourism policies themselves? and, more importantly, there is no question that tourism is a crossborder problem that europe should be concerned with. unfortunately, the brussels authorities do not see it that way. the tourism industry must also contribute to the so-called economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union in the future. the report also acknowledges the contribution of the tourism sector to the eu 2020 strategy with its absurd climate targets. i will give you some examples of the plans, mr president. the feasibility of a european quality tourism brand should be examined. of course, the bureaucratic mill in brussels will define this quality tourism and not the country or the tourists themselves. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. europe must not interfere in the tourist industry. just leave it to the national member states. they are well placed to provide a varied and competitive tourist offer.
mr president, if you read the list of objectives in this report, you would almost forget that this is about trade policy. from climate policy to labour law, europe is trying to impose a socialist agenda on all sides. such matters have no place in a report on trade policy. if europe enters the negotiations with this shopping list, it will be helping to ruin them in advance. does anyone really believe that developing countries are waiting for european social standards and climate objectives? these countries have something else on their minds. do you know what would really help these countries? that they can export their agricultural products to europe without hindrance. europe has the audacity to make all sorts of demands here, but in the meantime it continues to shield its own agricultural sector with billions of euros in subsidies. that's hypocritical and costs a lot of money. if the european union tries to conclude trade agreements on the basis of these conditions, it will fail.
mr president, i have two questions. the first question is to commissioner de gucht. there are still extremely disturbing reports from colombia about the human rights situation in the regions of colombia. human rights activists, lawyers, trade unionists are still being killed in that country. i think that before we proceed to ratify the free trade agreement with colombia, there must be real improvement in this area. despite the promises of president santos, who we spoke to last year - or some of us - the situation has still not really improved significantly. i wish you could say something about that, make a commitment. my other question is to commissioner georgieva on linking relief, rehabilitation and development. i would like you to tell us how you see the improvement in this essential link between emergency aid and development policy. perhaps mr piebalgs can say something about that, too, you never know.
commissioner de gucht, i had a lady in my office last week. fifteen years ago, she and 60 other human rights activists in her city founded an ngo for the protection of human rights. of those 60 people, 42 were killed in those 15 years. she herself was shot three times in the body and survived. the others have fled. she's the only one left in her town now. you can 't say to someone like that , we just have to sign that agreement. you'll have to use the leverage you have before the agreement is actually ratified.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, at its meeting next monday, 3 october, the eurogroup will not take any decision on the disbursement of the sixth instalment to greece, since by then the troika will not have submitted its report or, at least, we will not have had time to read it and to go into the analysis that will be submitted to us. at the eurogroup meeting next monday we will continue to refine the details of the implementation of all the instruments agreed on 21 july. there are still technical issues to be resolved. i shall try to persuade my colleagues to provide an answer to these remaining technical problems. i would like to reiterate to this house that it is essential that by mid-october we have put in place all the instruments with which we enriched the european facility at the european council meeting on 'euro formation' on 21 july. we don't have time to waste. i would add that i would like to explain to the financial markets, without kneeling before them, that democracies must follow their own rules. we have 17 governments that have been elected or at least have national parliamentary approval. it is true that democracies are sometimes slow. it will not lead to a system which prefers the irrationality and speed of financial markets to the serenity of parliamentary democracies. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, up to now in this debate i have been uncomfortably divided into two parts. now we're adding a third dimension to my humble self. as a european citizen, i do not agree with what we are doing in europe. i think we lack enthusiasm and ambition. that our efforts are insufficient in the face of the collapse of a great idea. it is the duty of our generation to ensure that the legacy we leave to future generations does not allow them to undo what previous generations have done but allows them to give europe a definitive leap forward. our generation bears a heavy responsibility, because we are an intergenerational generation, not the one which gave birth to the european idea from the ashes of the second world war, but also not the one which has not known war. at least our fathers knew war. we have a heavy responsibility, a duty of memory, and we have a duty to pass on this memory so that tomorrow's generations can do better than we are able to do today because we are indulging in all kinds of populism.
mr juncker, it is very brave of you to come here, because i think there is little to be proud of. the european crisis is continuing to fester and under your presidency the situation has only worsened. i am thinking, for example, of the debts of several euro countries, which have increased sharply and are enormously high. i think of greece, which is about to fall. and i am thinking of the european central bank, which already has over 130 billion in paper in its vaults, worth little more than wallpaper. in short, under your presidency the situation has worsened. my question is specific: you haven't considered resigning because there are no results?
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. that reality shows us the basic lack of a credible palestinian peace partner for the jewish state of israel. first of all, it is important to note that mahmoud abbas did not speak for hamas in new york last friday, nor did he act for hamas on the palestinian application for un membership. the political outcome of the reconciliation between hamas and fatah is not going to be easy. while the european union is today mainly committed to democratization and fair voting in the arab world, we see the opposite process in the west bank. what legitimacy does the palestinian authority have after the postponement of presidential, parliamentary and local elections three times? fundamental to israel's lack of confidence in mahmoud abbas as a peace partner is above all his systematic refusal to publicly endorse the two-state solution as a jewish state alongside a palestinian one. a legitimate demand from my government, the government of the netherlands, another eu member state of which i am proud.
mrs ashton, i think that the unilateral move that mr abbas made last week is not very wise. it was not without reason that the middle east quartet called on him to refrain from doing so. i don't think that unilateral action has brought peace any closer. - no, it's the opposite. i don't think we should go this way to put pressure on each other. what is needed is that we get to the negotiating table quickly, and you are right to be committed to that. we support you in that. israel has also shown you that it takes these negotiations seriously. lieberman has stated that he wants to come to the table to resume the negotiations. my request is: let that happen tomorrow! we must sit down at the table, because only there can we achieve peace and make agreements and achieve results. peace in the middle east is vital for the people involved and for the whole world. i would like to hear from you what the chances are of a speedy negotiation.
madam president, it is good that we have this debate today. i would also like to pay my respects to mrs ashton. what i am particularly pleased about is that we now seem to be able to come to a firm common text in the european parliament too, a text which recognizes and states that the palestinians have the right to a state of their own, in accordance with the 1967 borders, and that israel and its citizens also have the right to security. president, we want a solution to the legitimate request of mahmoud abbas at this 66th session of the un - that is, later this year - because we can and we must and we do not want to send the palestinians home empty-handed. there is one thing i miss about the resolution, however. what is europe doing and what is the international community doing if israel continues to build settlements, as it has announced today that it will do in east jerusalem? mr pöttering has already spoken about it. what do you think of these provocations? does that mean that you also leave open the possibility that we will then move to unilateral action?
it is a well-known saying that 'it takes two to tango', and after a somewhat dubious opening dance with our partners in north africa and the middle east, we are at least sharing the same dance floor with our partners in that region and are even swinging full blasts here and there. the east of europe is dominated by an uncomfortable and sometimes icy distance. apart from poland and sweden, there is little real political will and interest among the member states to give a boost to relations between the eu and our eastern partners. that is short-sighted because we benefit from stable neighbours, simply because of our dependence on energy from that region. the summit's draft declaration confirms this picture. i therefore ask mrs ashton, commissioner füle and all the member states to show more initiative in order to really start deepening the political dialogue now. the eu should not be a dance teacher, but a flexible and sensitive partner. the show trial in ukraine and the continued arrests of activists in belarus and azerbaijan are of great concern to me. that's why it's important right now that we reach out and enter the east dance floor with flair and ambition. deeper economic cooperation and easier travel for us and our partners there is what is needed. of course there are conditions, but keeping each other from the dance is not going to make anyone better. i thank mrs ashton for her willingness to intensify the dialogue with progressive social movements such as the public chamber in azerbaijan. the situation is also changing in the eastern region. russia is joined by turkey. new dance partners may feel uncomfortable, but a clear vision and commitment is what we need. two weeks ago, we had the opportunity to attend our first ball here in strasbourg with colleagues from the five euronest eastern partner countries. belarus had not been invited for a while. even if we didn't come to a conclusion that everyone could agree with, i believe in the process and i'm convinced that by continuing to practice and especially by listening to each other, something beautiful can also come out here.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, madam high representative, we spoke about the middle east today as well as the turnarounds in north africa. we touched on the urgent need for the eu to be a partner in ensuring that reforms on human rights are inclusive, deep and meaningful. the exact same goes for lgbti rights. my party, the dutch liberal d66 party, was the initiator of same-sex marriage, which we established ten years ago. unfortunately the challenges, both within the eu and in the rest of the world, are often much more elementary. in our union, and unfortunately also in this house, there are too many who discriminate, exclude and even attack sons, daughters, fathers and mothers, neighbours and colleagues simply because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, and it is much worse elsewhere. iran and uganda were highlighted. let us work together towards solid and inclusive respect for human rights in the eu so that, along with our (hopefully) more effective and ambitious policies, we are a credible global player. in the eu, north africa, the middle east or elsewhere in the world, lgbt rights are human rights. we must use the toolkit that is available. our group, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, wants to highlight the need to include asylum for those who were prosecuted for their sexual orientation or gender identity so that they can find a safe space in the eu.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. there's a reason for that. despite the debates here in strasbourg, homophobia is not really decreasing within the european union either. as long as we do not have our own house in order, we are also less credible towards third countries. the best remedy for homophobia is to guarantee full equality of rights. my group has made a number of proposals to be even more specific in the resolution on this matter. in practice, for example, there is still no complete equal freedom of movement for same-sex couples in the eu. of course, they can seek and get work in other member states, but that does not mean that their partnership or marriage is recognised. so they're missing out on all the rights that married couples have. the best measure against homophobia is to ensure equal rights and that can only be done through mutual recognition of partnerships and marriages. the situation outside the european union is of course even more serious. consider the development in africa, where many hobts are threatened with death. what assistance is the european union giving to the movement of the murdered david kato of uganda and similar movements in other countries? how does the european union support the gay movement in neighbouring countries? and what initiatives is the european union taking in support of the arab spring? does this include a part for the fight against homophobia in these countries? it is a long agenda and i hope that the ep will make this resolution a top priority.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as the high representative and commissioner füle are aware, turkey’s foreign policy is guided by a doctrine called ‘zero problems with neighbours’ but, unfortunately, today turkey is experiencing problems with almost all its neighbouring countries. the mounting tensions with cyprus are of special concern to this house. the commission has rightfully urged both sides – the greek cypriots as well – to show restraint. turkey’s role in the region is important and could be a great vehicle for more intensive cooperation between turkey and the eu. i hope the commission and high representative will find active support from turkey in their efforts to find a negotiated solution to the middle east conflict, and i hope that they will seek closer cooperation with turkey to end the ongoing hell that we see in syria. however, eu-turkey relations are, formally, predominantly about domestic affairs and reforms: the copenhagen criteria. a focus on foreign affairs and turkey’s important role in the region neither compensates for nor replaces the relevance of making reforms to meet these criteria. similarly, it seems that turkey’s economy is doing better than all its neighbours, with truly remarkable figures. yet economic success cannot replace good governance, respect for civil rights and a functioning rule of law. a press release i recently received from the turkish government aimed to explain that the rule of law is not violated in turkey but accepted that there are approximately 70 journalists in prison. official charges are not always filed and pre-trial detention periods can last years. to make matters worse, indictments that are presented are often supported by something called ‘secret evidence’, which makes a transparent judicial process impossible. the turkish government asserted that these journalists are in prison on terrorism charges and that those of us who believe press freedom is under pressure are wrong. this house, the commission and the external action service have assessed the press freedom issue in turkey with great concern. would the high representative and the commissioner agree that it is time to broaden the scope and assess whether counter-terrorism laws are being abused and whether the rule of law is still functioning in line with the copenhagen criteria, so that we can move towards the much-needed accession of turkey to the eu?
madam president, up till now the commission has assessed the tensions and the potential conflict between turkey and cyprus as a bilateral conflict. i disagree. the conflict is between an eu member state and a country that has been accepted as a candidate for the eu club. therefore, the commission must not be silent. the planned exploration is in cyprus’s exclusive economic zone. this extends to the south of the island and in no way limits exploitation in the northern part or the rights of turkey. for me it is crystal clear that these rights follow from the unclos treaty, where economic zones are described, followed by bilateral agreements. the fact that turkey did not sign unclos does not mean that it rejects it. in the 1980s, turkey declared an exclusive economic zone in the black sea and reached an agreement with romania, bulgaria and the former soviet union. it used the same median line method then. i therefore urge turkey to refrain from all threats. i also have a question for the government of cyprus. i would ask it to give an assurance that the move towards the exploration and possible exploitation of natural gas and oil reserves in the exclusive economic zone will not in any way impinge on the possibility of an agreement between the two cypriot communities on reunification, and that this will be to the benefit of both communities. i think that this should be done – or could be done – for instance by pledging to earmark reserves, or part of the future revenue, for the benefit of the whole cypriot community once reunification is achieved, and also by pledging to provide electricity, generated by natural gas, to northern cyprus.
madam president, while the governments of the republic of cyprus and turkey are busy with their moves in the eastern mediterranean, turkish and greek cypriots are sitting and waiting on the sidelines. they have most to lose from this present situation. our priority should be to ensure negotiations are carried out successfully to realise the unification of cyprus. however, it is extremely worrying that the tensions in the region have been raised just before the start of the next round of negotiations. both the republic of cyprus and turkey are responsible for doing their utmost to establish a positive climate for negotiations to make sure a historic window of opportunity will not close down. the people of cyprus need all parties involved to work together to reach a comprehensive settlement. the people of cyprus – greek and turkish – who are all european citizens, deserve a stable future in the eu. it is about time that the european union works for both of them.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is already bankrupt. this is slowly dragging the netherlands into a sinking swamp. the euro had to be introduced in countries like greece, and it was to be introduced, despite the enormous risks that were known in advance. that decision has now brought us to a crisis unlike any other. in the meantime, dutch citizens may foot the bill. the euro-phile who caused these problems now wants to go even further. president barroso has openly advocated the introduction of eurobonds. it is an absurd idea, mr barroso. the euro crisis was caused by the fact that southern euro countries could borrow money too easily. the last thing we need now is eurobonds where it becomes even easier to create debt. that's the recipe for the next crisis. who do you think you are representing, mr barroso? it is well known that member states such as the netherlands are strongly opposed to these eurobonds. why do you not support the countries that are keeping the european union alive? mr president, the situation is clear to us: mr barroso is siding with the euro-sinners. meanwhile, countries which have their books in order, such as the netherlands, are being squeezed out like a lemon to pay the bill for, say, the fraudulent greece. mr barroso, as far as the party for freedom is concerned, you can clear your desk and look for a new job. the president of the commission is supposed to represent the interests of all countries. as far as the freedom party is concerned, you are clearly not capable of that.
thank you, mr president. i would like to thank you, mr president barroso, for the way in which you have also effectively set out the common method for saving our common euro. we are about to have a crucial vote on the six-pack, in which we will put the european commission in the driver's seat as an independent authority. it took months to get the council to agree to this. but this parliament has stood its ground. it is now crucial that we all vote 'yes' in this house, because then we can build on that. we really urge you to come up with these ambitious proposals, because we are at a crossroads. we can decide today to build on and reform that common method of economic governance in europe. the alternative is: chaos in the financial markets and the government leaders who are in charge. that's a choice too. we must then also continue to work in this house, together with all the political groups, on the proposals you have presented today to strengthen the future governance.
i would like to thank mr barroso, mr president, for his speech and in particular for the many concrete measures he has mentioned. as a dutchman, i always worry about the pace. i have the impression that the financial markets want europe to move faster. in addition, we have a saying in the netherlands: 'there is a difference between being right and mr barroso being right and being right'. we have to be right. the relationship with the council has already been discussed here this morning, but i would ask mr barroso to reflect on the criticism from outside europe. mr greithner was in poland last week and felt he had to comment on the pace of europe. but now the brics countries also want to help europe. i myself thought that was an insult to europe. i'd like a response to that.
mr president, president barroso is a bit distracted; i would like to say you spoke beautifully, i would like to congratulate you on your speech, president barroso, but we are not going to talk our way out of this crisis. you rightly pointed out that we have most of all a political crisis. but here i would like to echo the words of my colleague, sylvie goulard, because for the last seven years you held the most powerful position in the european union and much of this crisis, including the political crisis, came about on your watch. so, mr barroso, the european parliament and my group in particular have made many concrete proposals today to get out of the crisis. parliament gave you its confidence in 2004 and 2009 but confidence is not a blank cheque. it has to be earned again and again. mr barroso, why should we have confidence this time that you will deliver and that you deserve our confidence in the next two years?
in writing. - i support the proposals of the so-called six-pack. it is essential that the member states establish and maintain budgetary discipline. and that the monitoring of these is strengthened. the six-pack includes the wortmann-kool report. that report is going in the right direction but it does not go far enough. it does, after all, give the politicians the opportunity to decide on sanctions against eurozone sinners. i don't like that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, it is important that the whole six-pack be adopted. if it were to be rejected out of hand, the euro crisis would be at its peak tomorrow. i do not want that, and that is why i support the wortmann-kool report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the commissioners and the minister for their constructive contributions to this debate. i will not go back twenty years like karl-heinz florenz, but rather i want to take you back 400 years when william shakespeare wrote his famous words ‘to be or not to be’. i believe that a contemporary and more economically-oriented shakespeare could now write ‘to be sustainable or not to be at all’. because that is the question. the world is currently developing towards a green economy; an economy where sustainability is a key condition for being competitive. leading companies are aware of this and are investing in that vision, but unfortunately most companies still consider sustainability as something which costs a lot of money. for that reason, rio+20 comes at the right moment. it is a huge opportunity to show the world that being efficient with resources, emitting less and investing in green technology does pay off. let rio+20 be a worldwide wake-up call and not only involve the business community but let them commit themselves to the objectives of the green economy. but that is the ‘green economy’ side of the summit; what about the other top issue: a constitutional framework, governance, or politicians? are they working along these same lines? no. just watch the presidential debates in the us for five minutes, and it is rather painful to see how science is put aside for short-term political reasons. i am afraid that governments speaking in quite general terms do not deliver on what they agree to do in international agreements, but is a clean environment and the conservation of species not a universal right just like human rights? of course it is; that is why i strongly endorse the establishment of an international environmental court. it sends a clear message out into the world that environmental issues are trans-boundary and should be dealt with as such. shakespeare’s hamlet is not particularly known for its happy end, but if we are ambitious for rio+20 the contemporary shakespeare i started with will have the opportunity to find a happy end in his new play.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group the rio+20 resolution shows ambition in the field of sustainable development, with perhaps the most important point being the move away from nuclear energy. it is important that parliament should now speak out against this ticking time bomb. it is not a question of whether nuclear energy will bring the world to its senses, but when. this was demonstrated earlier this year in the terrible disaster at fukushima and less than two weeks ago, much closer to home, in france. many colleagues have been shocked by this and i hope they will vote in favour of it tomorrow. the energy demand is great, but destroying the environment and social stability with nuclear energy is certainly not the solution. the rio resolution also calls for less deforestation, especially in latin america. i have a comment on that. before we can take action in brazil and neighbouring countries on the destruction of rain forests, we must take action in europe ourselves. these rain forests are being cut down to a large extent to grow soybeans for the european market. europe is partly responsible for the massive deforestation in latin america and must restrict the import of this 'rainforest soybean', otherwise we cannot be held responsible for the destruction of brazil's rainforest next year. the resolution also speaks out against gmos, and i welcome that. but europe failed to ban gmos altogether earlier this year. as with the rainforest, the rules are: a better environment starts with you. finally, water management. clean drinking water is a human right. drinking water supply must remain in public hands. i hope that we will reaffirm that tomorrow as representatives of the people. i trust that tomorrow the european parliament will confirm the ambitions of the rio resolution and i ask the council and the commission to do the same. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
i did not quite hear the last part of the question, but there were accidents in france two weeks ago involving a storage unit. in addition, workers have been infected and terrible accidents have occurred. now we can't pretend like nothing's going on. nuclear energy has very great dangers, as we have seen in japan. this leads to social and environmental instability. we shouldn't go through with this. there are plenty of other sustainable solutions where we don't have nuclear waste that we can continue to use in europe. we must start here, so that we can also reach out to other countries to fulfil our ambitions. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
if we were to put all the billions of dollars in subsidies that go to innovation in nuclear power into real development of renewable energy, using water, solar and wind, we would be much further than investing in nuclear power and maintaining it. we need to look at truly sustainable forms of energy.
president, commissioner, 20 years ago, there was a great deal of hope after rio. with less hope, we actually enter this rio 20 years later. so the question is: how do we restore that hope, the hope that despite the increasing scarcity of resources and the pressures on ecosystems, prosperity is possible? you and your colleague mr potočnik have made several proposals to that end. but the whole problem is: how do you make that concrete on a global scale? we all have beautiful visions and beautiful plans and you've made a very good move. the only question is: what specific goals do you want to achieve in rio? is that a new organ? is this a new system for what is called the internalisation of external costs, i.e. the inclusion of environmental and social costs in the price of products? how do you propose to make these appointments? are the wto and the g20 also at the table? water is a very serious problem, of course, and there are agreements to be made. only, how are you going to do that and what exactly is it about, because water has a very difficult time moving across the earth. but of course, the use of water around the world is a very important discussion. but will we continue to debate this or will there be concrete measures? on the rio+20 website, all kinds of organizations are making fantastic recommendations about what we can all do or what world leaders should do. what is the commission going to do about it and how do we create a standard platform? i would like to end with a quote that my colleague has also used. oscar wilde once said , "the world is an oyster but i used the wrong fork". how are we gonna use the right fork and find that pearl?
(starting outside the microphone range) all kinds of topics are discussed. i'm going to pick one in particular today: the theme of overfishing. that's really going the wrong way. at present, about eighty percent of all fish species are overfished, threatening the extinction of many species. i think that when it comes to the world's oceans, we should make agreements on that, because we are all fishing from the same pond. these agreements must be about sustainable fisheries management, i.e. ensuring that fish stocks are kept at their present level and that fishing techniques are used to conserve the seabed and reduce by-catch. many people are employed in the fishing industry, and about a quarter of the world's population depends on fish as their main source of food. i would therefore like to quote, not someone else's words, but my own: if we had not turned the tide in rio, the damage would have been irreparable.
president, twenty years after the last sustainability summit in rio de janeiro, we have not really come very far. biodiversity is still declining worldwide. greenhouse gases are increasing. the oceans are being depleted even further. the dehydration is increasing. is our economy that much better? we are now experiencing the effects of the financial bubbles on which we have built our economy with the economic crisis. so rio de janeiro means that we have to change course both ecologically and economically. and as is often the case, here in this room, we all agree with each other. minister kraszewski wants a greener economy, commissioner hedegaard, commissioner potočnik, they are all for that greener economy. but if we want to be credible, we have to do that ourselves and set a good example. where is poland when we're talking about an ambitious climate agenda? we'll never hear about the green economy. in agricultural policy, when will the real greening come? in fisheries policy, are we really going to tackle this overfishing now? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
president, mrs malmström, we are here precisely to help you convince the various member states of the need to resettle these refugees who are stranded in tunisia on the european continent. i am surprised that all of europe panicked when 25 000 tunisians registered on lampedusa, so much so that even france closed the borders to them. so it's even fewer people. and contrary to what mr tannock just said, these are people who can no longer go home, somalis, eritreans, sudanese and a few other difficult countries in africa. there was a boy and a girl there, that i met in that camp in shousha. he was 19, she was 18, they were from somalia, he had been working in libya for a while, and she was pregnant. it was july. maybe she's had a baby by now. but it was july, she was pregnant, in that tent, in that sand. he was 19 and had already built a career as a laborer in libya. people like that, families like that deserve a second chance. it is shameful to see the european member states - we had all the ambassadors at the table in the tunisian capital those days - looking away and doing nothing. commissioner, we are with you. we will all write to our own member states immediately, but i regret that i cannot now ask the polish presidency for a reply.
president, mr claeys, for the sake of clarity are you aware that the refugees we are talking about today in the refugee camps in tunisia have all been tested by the unhcr and have all been granted political refugee status? hence the desire to resettle these people somewhere in the world, in europe for example. my question to you is: you understand that we are talking about refugees who all have political refugee status?
mr president, it is very difficult for a politician to oppose a fund such as this globalisation fund. because let's face it, it helps people who need it, who are in a difficult position. but it does not relieve us of the duty to look critically at whether this is also the right way to spend public money. i doubt that. i do not think it is europe's place to put plaster all over the european union. it is up to europe to do much more to strengthen the european economy structurally. that is why i am not in favour of this fund. what i do support, and that is the way we really need to go, is that we make the european budget much more flexible in the new financial multiannual budget. that's what it's all about, after all. we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a major player in the development of the community.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the point of this question is that the costs that the electricity sector can pass on to the energy-intensive sectors - think steel and chemicals, aluminium - are now really threatening the competitiveness of those companies. the problem is therefore the shifting of these indirect costs from the electricity sector to the large consumers. what we need, commissioner, is good information, information throughout europe, so that you can also apply article 10 - which we did not adopt in vain - throughout europe, because we must not again damage the level playing field, the equal position for companies in europe. the call is: to work quickly. secondly, one more question: the german exit from the nuclear sector: what impact does this have on the rising costs for energy-intensive industries in germany? can i get some information on that?
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the future of the european union. it is up to the european parliament to ensure that the x-rays are not allowed in these body scanners and that there is a free choice whether to go through the body scanner or not. but we have also made it very clear that we should no longer work with photographs and with men or women, security guards, who are sitting down further away looking at photographs of naked passengers. that's not consensual. and why is that not consensual? because here, commercial interests take precedence over private interests, over privacy. it is a little strange to know that the technology exists to deal with these devices completely without a photograph, but that, because we apparently do not want to price certain companies out of the market, is submitted to privacy. we can't have our privacy and our freedoms given away to companies that don't seem to be innovating enough. i would really like to hear from the european commission why they have chosen to give these companies space. i think the world is turned upside down. and we could do something about that, but no. the european commission has in all its wisdom decided that these are only technical measures, that there is no need for legislation. those body scanners at airports are just the beginning. there are already body scanners at the supreme court in paris. who's to say that companies or institutions, like major museums, won't be putting these devices in the future? how do we ensure that citizens, visitors to such a museum, travellers in airports, travellers on trains are not stared at by someone from a distance? it is not necessary, we should not do it, and i would give anything to have you respect our wishes in that regard.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is a completely unnecessary response by europe to the crisis. if businesses are to be helped in difficult times, and that question deserves a separate debate, let national or regional governments do it. they usually know the specific situation well. there is also another reason not to support the renewal of the fund: it is the pumping of money between the capitals and brussels and thus the enlargement of the european bureaucracy. stopping the fund is the only right course. the commission has also been very active in the area of the environment. many dutch colleagues have not supported the requests in previous votes. but when several applications from the netherlands were put to the vote at the beginning of september, many suddenly voted in favour. that is, of course, to appease voters in your own country or region. the fund is not helping either, on the contrary. while countries like china and the other emerging economies are focusing on new products and markets, europe is taking a defensive stance with such a fund and lacks a coherent growth strategy. i therefore do not support the extension of the duration of the fund.
i should like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this directive. so they ask for billions from the dutch people and walk out of the room for a debate. that's too crazy for words! the european union is collapsing, the eurozone is going bankrupt and the hard-working taxpayers of the netherlands, germany, england and slovakia are bleeding. and the citizens may pay for your mismanagement and fraud. and then i address the parties responsible for this: the european parliament has been a party to the european parliament for a long time, and it is the european parliament that has been the party to the european parliament for a long time. i think it is a great shame and mr verhofstadt adds a little to it by saying that these parliaments should be abolished altogether and not be allowed to interfere in this decision-making. it's contempt for the citizen. because you're the one who caused the problems! president, this european union is a project of a ruling elite and not of the european citizens. mr barroso is in the employ of the regents who run away from their mistakes. they have got europe into deep trouble and now they want more europe. this european union, ladies and gentlemen, is outdated and obsolete, overtaken by reality, the internet, international trade and the mobility of well-informed citizens. we do not need the european union any more! the independence and identity of the european countries is precisely the strength of europe, and no bureaucracy can change that!
this week, romania invited the netherlands to come and see how the country guards its borders. romania wants to prove that it meets all the standards. i think it's a nice gesture, but it's not going to help. the dutch government is deliberately trying to change the rules during the competition. the government is on a collision course. it is not about the external borders at all, it is about domestic politics. eastern european workers are blamed for encouraging unemployment among the dutch. the government wants to show the dutch public its strengths. but the free movement of workers is confused with the free movement of persons. and we're a thief of our own wallet. dutch trade with both countries will average. we are not only proving ourselves to be a bad neighbor, we are proving ourselves to be a bad merchant. in the netherlands i know, that's usually very hard. i therefore call on my colleagues in the netherlands to stop having national debates on the backs of romanians and bulgarians who want to travel freely, as we do.
i do not support the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen, mr president, and i have three reasons for that. first of all: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. corruption, human trafficking and organised crime are not taken into account, and it is in these areas that both countries have much to do. the european union must help them to do so, and let us talk about that accession again in a few years' time. secondly, schengen is under pressure. greece and italy are struggling to cope with the influx of immigrants and asylum seekers. we must first resolve these problems before we can discuss schengen any further. thirdly: dexia also passed the stress test for banks, but the bank was saved this week by a narrow escape. it is up to politicians to keep their ears and eyes open to the differences between theory and everyday practice. the difference in the free movement of persons in romania and bulgaria is still enormous. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
this issue has nothing to do with lying by one or the other. it's about two things. firstly, the criteria currently used for schengen accession are inadequate and need to be adjusted, and secondly - as i said in my example of dexia - it has recently passed the stress test completely, there was nothing wrong. and now, last week, that bank was saved at the last minute. we as politicians must pay particular attention to how everyday things are done in practice and how they look in theory. i have warned of this and that is why i say that both countries are not ready for it yet; the practice is still too different from the theory. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
madam, i made the comparison with the dexia bank because in theory, in the books, it seemed that dexia was a fine bank with nothing wrong with it. so everything was fine. that is the same thing we are dealing with now with bulgaria and romania: it all seems to be true, but corruption, human trafficking and organized crime are still too high, threatening the free movement of persons. so that has to be dealt with first, just as dexia has been dealt with now, and then we can talk about the accession of both countries to schengen at a later date.
mr president, agreements are agreements. if you change the rules of the game during the game, you create mistrust. what are the deals we make here worth? that's why it's important to keep promises. romania and bulgaria now feel unfairly treated by the member states. they have fulfilled the commitments to join schengen. however, when these countries joined in 2007, other agreements were also made on fighting corruption. the results are still lacking, according to recent commission reports. these agreements can have a direct impact on the european area of freedom and security. don't get me wrong. i want a strong schengen area with romania and bulgaria. one that will enable citizens to maintain their confidence in a europe without internal frontiers. the external borders will be as strong as the weakest link. there can be no doubt about that. there is now. that is why i ask the council how it intends to resolve this. i hope that this will happen quickly so that romania and bulgaria can join the schengen area as soon as possible.
mr president, while the euro crisis occupies political agendas and headlines, we are facing another crisis, which is that of the eu as a global player. high representative, i believe that this week’s statements on bahrain, syria and the violence in egypt were very good, but what actions will now back up those words? the eu can seek stronger overlap between values and interests, but not if it continues to navel-gaze or fragment. we should leverage the impact of our single market to make it work for stability, growth and the defence of human rights. obama has announced oil sanctions for syria. while the eu is syria’s main trading partner, it was unable to unite or to lead in this issue. looking inward also hurts our relationship with turkey, while we need to cooperate and engage on north africa and the middle east in a more intensive way. we are largely failing our neighbours and the next generation, and with that our own interests. the arab spring is turning into a winter and we must stand more closely with those people and their future. in egypt, the supreme council of the armed forces is behaving no differently than the mubarak regime was. citizens are tried in military courts for blogging – like maikel nabil – or for speaking out – like asmaa mahfouz. what concrete actions will the eu take to invest in a truly new egypt? in syria, an illegitimate government continues to kill people, and there are now threats to europe concerning that might happen to us if we recognise the opposition council. those threats were made, mr pöttering, by the grand mufti, and syrians in the eu are also facing threats. it is up to the syrian people to determine their own future, but we must protect their human rights and we are not doing enough. more pressure, and giving a clear choice to the economic elites that doing business with al-assad means no business with europe would be a good start. let me specifically highlight the need to ban the export of surveillance, security and censoring technologies to countries that use them to violate human rights. in bahrain, the prosecution of doctors in military courts for treating people indiscriminately shows disregard for human life. the world unitedly condemns that in the strongest terms. i also wanted to highlight the case of two bloggers that are imprisoned in bahrain – abduljalil al-singace and ali abdulemam. please highlight their cases too.
allow me to make a brief comment beforehand. madam high representative, as the chairman of the israeli delegation, i warmly join you in congratulating the parents of gilad shalit on his forthcoming release from five years of imprisonment and total isolation. that's why this is a happy day. mr president, the egyptian daily al masri al jung has given a moving and accurate account of the massacre which the egyptian army carried out unexpectedly on sunday evening in cairo among peaceful christian demonstrators. last night's telephone call showed me how deeply shocked copts and christians of other churches are. a grim lack of government protection against militant islamist aggression is already a sobering fact in post-mubarak egypt. but the prospects for egyptian christians may be even darker. that is what the ominous events of the beginning of this week have taught us. i hope, madam high representative, that you will do everything in your power to ensure that there is a genuinely independent and thorough public inquiry into the frightening, deadly escalation of violence on sunday night. at the same time, i expect the european union to take a strong and clear stand against the widespread social discrimination against the christian minority in egypt. the arab spring, as it is known, has yet to dawn for this minority.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group too considers it vital that we arrive at a situation in which ukraine and the european union work more closely together, so in principle we favour an association agreement – but an association agreement alone, which is not considered to be a first step to anything else such as membership. let us be honest, the due process of law is also vital in any association agreement with ukraine, and i agree with the high representative that the prosecution of mrs tymoshenko was not, let me say, an example of european thinking and acting. we must be clear what it is we are asking ukraine explicitly to do now; we must be very clear. i have heard that a meeting is foreseen between president barroso and president yanukovych, at which i think the high representative will also be present. is that meeting still on the agenda, and if so what will the ukrainian president be asked to do? will it be to change the law under which ms tymoshenko was sentenced? or an appeal, and if so under what conditions? or a pardon? what are we going to ask for and in what timeframe? i agree that we should negotiate further, but we should also be clear as to what will be done if the association agreement is ready but the tymoshenko case has not been resolved. i await an answer.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, america and the eu face similarly large challenges when it comes to resolving the economic crisis, and cooperation should be our intention in order to sustain this recovery. there is, however, a serious discrepancy between eu and us measures that is a reason for concern. the protectionist tendencies in the us jobs act seem to block access to public procurement for eu-based companies. this is of concern not only to this parliament, but also to large sections of the us business community itself, where it is feared that the jobs act is out of step with a balanced us procurement policy, and that it will undermine the us ability to grow exports and jobs by accessing foreign markets. countermeasures may well result, such as those we saw in 2009 from the canadian side. trade is necessary for job creation, and trade is global. in global trade the us should not alienate one of its closest partners, the eu. we both face the challenge of the emerging economies and we also have a number of opportunities, such as the development of a comprehensive, transatlantic growth and jobs initiative – which would include plans for the removal of remaining non-tariff barriers to trade and investment by 2020 and steps towards zero tariff levels for certain types of product. now that the senate has voted against the jobs act in the us, this should be the moment for the eu to address some of our problems again. can the commissioner explain whether he sees a difference between the impact of ‘buy american’ and that of ‘buy america’ – applying respectively to public procurement at federal and local levels? these remarkably similar titles could easily confuse people. is ‘buy america’ applicable to canada and to eu partners, despite the wto general procurement agreement, as canada and the us business community argue, or is ambassador kirk right in rejecting these concerns? will the commission push for reciprocity in the public procurement rules between the eu and the us at both the federal and local levels? the asymmetry between us and eu access to markets is striking. i would like to learn from the commission what the results of conversations with the americans on this subject have been so far, and whether it proposes that flexible rules or measures should be introduced on the eu side, should that be necessary. i would also like to ask what this parliament and the transatlantic economic council could do to help the commission sustain openness and global trade between the two sides of the atlantic.
i would like to thank mrs heide rühle for her excellent work and also the commissioner. all that said, the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises. one more thing: it may be useful in these times of crisis to propose a certain minimum, for example that at least 30% of all procurement should go to smes. this is a reason for governments to make sure that smes are included. conditions must therefore be laid down, but that may be possible in a future proposal from commissioner barnier, who has already announced this more or less. i hope that the ruhle report will be a good intermediate step towards an even better and more active sme through procurement policy. if that would work, i would be most grateful. it is good, especially in an economic crisis, to take rapid steps to get european businesses back to growth. that's good for us and that's good for everyone. it's the most social thing we can do.
president. - we are in agreement here today and that creates promise for the future, that something is really going to change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the restrictive rules are a trap for this long-term, for sustainability and innovation, and also for employment. we all stand for principles, but those different principles often contradict each other and create a huge, daunting bureaucracy. that is why i propose that we test very clearly for innovation and for smes. is that the only thing the rules are geared towards? and it may be a good idea to set a percentage for this, but at least there should be preferential treatment for smes. and yes, cheap is not good enough. good quality and maximum commitment to corporate social responsibility must be the norm. and common sense must prevail in the long run.
president. - mr president, in these times of crisis we are finally paying attention to the entrepreneur and entrepreneurship. it's not just about the money, although that's very, very important. it's also about having the right education, about connecting and about creating innovation and also incorporating it. there is a lot of attention on smes, but is it the right attention? because i see a lot of trends going back to research, but not so much to innovation and smes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. very often, small amounts are needed, business angels and venture capital, for smes. how do you propose to do that with that fund? is the fund you're talking about going to cover all these questions for small amounts? they're often start-ups that need small amounts. and now for the second-class passengers: we need that experience of all entrepreneurs for a second chance. mr tajani, your colleague, writes to us in a letter that the commission's policy is not strong for second-rate workers and that the procedures are really weak. have you been able to find a more positive attitude towards second-class people, and what are you going to do about it?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0403 - c4-0209/97). i have my doubts about that. all the recommendations made to the member states have one general line, namely that only public expenditure should be considered and that as much as possible should be cut back. that is the dominant line in the commission's recommendations. mr dalli says that next time the commission will also look a little wider, at employment. that's an improvement, but it's not what the semester's for. the semester should contribute to the eu 2020 strategy. and it has five key indicators: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the development of vocational training. these issues should be central and should be reflected in the recommendations. we looked at how all these different indicators were taken into account. the commission has made a number of recommendations which are not in line with these key indicators. some examples: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another example: the research budget. here again the netherlands says that they are not going to 3% - which is the target - but to 2.5%. i have put questions to the commission on this. and what does the commission say? "2.5% is fine". in short, the 3% target is not important at all to the commission. say that. if that is the commission's line, then just make it very clear that the eu 2020 agenda is no longer relevant and that we are only looking at economic indicators. be honest about it. we want to see a real look at the eu 2020 indicators and that is a democratic process. involve the european parliament, national parliaments and civil society organisations and look at all the indicators. or else be honest and put that eu 2020 agenda on the table!
mr president, there is no doubt about the position of parliament. the treaty provides that the parliament is the final discharge authority. all the institutions in europe are accountable to the committee on budgetary control for the policies they pursue, and i do not see any reason why the council of ministers should be an exception. the final solution might be to go to the european court of justice, but i do not think that is the ideal solution. parliament is still open to dialogue and i would call on the council to discuss with the committee on budgetary control how the matter can be resolved in all openness, at administrative level, at political level, and not to refuse to appear any more. we may be able to resolve the matter by talking, and that is not helped by the council's continuing refusal to enter into dialogue with the committee on budgetary control.
i would like to ask the commissioners, mr president, about the sense of urgency of economic growth in europe. we hope that an agreement on the euro crisis will be reached tomorrow, but we are constantly being told that this must be accompanied by economic growth. you can't just solve the euro crisis, you have to create economic growth. i am surprised that the commission's proposals are always delayed. proposals that we would get this fall go to 2012. that's my first question. the second question concerns the services directive. there is still a lot of debate about the failure to implement the services directive. what specific action is the commission taking? and my final question is: what do we generally do to speed things up? copyright is slowing down again. so , in a nutshell , what are these three commissioners planning to do to speed up economic growth?
i thank the commissioners for their inspiring replies. that's the tone i like to hear. one thing though: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. you know that. mr. barnier has been to warsaw. these are commissioners who are sufficiently present on the ground. but let us realise that everything we agree on, before it works in the internal market, requires some psychological work.
in writing. - the pvv voted against this motion for a resolution. the present resolution says that it wants to simplify administrative and legal procedures in public procurement, but then replaces this with additional criteria. the european parliament is taking the place of national authorities by prescribing the criteria to be followed by public authorities in the award of public contracts. it is therefore important to ensure that the lowest price is no longer the decisive criterion in public procurement. instead, it should be about sustainable, climate-friendly and co2-neutral procurement and public procurement that supposedly promote the 'european social model'. the pvv believes that it is up to the member states themselves to set criteria for public procurement, not the eu. that is why the pvv voted against this resolution.
president. - mr president, i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to give you the answer to your question. on sunday, there will be absolute radio silence and the decisions will not be made public until after the summit tomorrow. so what are we basing this on? leaked design documents, articles in the press? but - and that is why we are taking part in this debate - there are many concerns and there is a lot of uncertainty among our citizens. the crisis seems to be deepening and the economic outlook is worsening. jobs for our citizens, our pensions, important securities are at stake. i would therefore like to encourage the heads of government to take an ambitious approach in this debate on behalf of my group. we must not adopt partial decisions, but a comprehensive plan, a convincing approach, so that we can regain the confidence of the financial markets and resist the attacks on our euro. because we've been stuck in political muddle and half-baked solutions for too long. this is a question of confidence in europe's ability to put things right. it's five past twelve by now. there is no easy way out. the origin of the debt crisis is in member states, but the problems in some member states affect us all. we share a common currency, which we all benefit from, year after year. it also obliges us to show solidarity and to seek solutions together. the strengthening of the efsf and a european plan for the capitalisation of banks are absolutely necessary to achieve a lasting solution to the major problems in greece and to restore calm to the financial markets. the efsf must be given the firepower of a bazooka and the borrowing capacity must be much, much higher, but the independence of the european central bank must be well guaranteed. because if the markets are bluffing about the euro, we should be able to bluff back. we must stand up for our prosperity, for our stability and security. the situation is so serious that countries and even banks with serious liquidity problems must be able to receive support from this fund under strict conditions. because the risk of infection is lurking. we have to literally prevent banks from going bankrupt, because a stable financial system is vital to economic stability, and that's about our jobs. the banks and, where appropriate, the member states are primarily responsible for raising capital themselves. the emergency fund may only be used in case of extreme emergency. the commission has also announced that recapitalisation should not be a reward for irresponsible policies but should be linked to restructuring and a responsible remuneration policy. banks must be made sustainable, because it is unacceptable for citizens, for our taxpayers, that banks have to be bailed out time and again with taxpayers' money. that is why we, including this house, must speed up the regulation of financial markets and the proposals on the table. the deposit guarantee scheme, a balanced financial transaction tax, so that it can work. the commission has also proposed a banking crisis mechanism, coupled with a bank levy. the ppe welcomes the conclusions of last sunday's summit to speed up the introduction of the six-pack. the commission has also taken the view that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. we must move forward, especially in the eurozone. it is also important that important steps be taken in the conclusions of the eurotope tomorrow. the euro plus pact must be enforceable and the commission's proposals for intervention in the budgets of member states must be implemented swiftly. but we also need to have a fundamental debate on further economic and fiscal integration in the euro area and europe as a whole, in our single market. the amendment to the treaty must also be included in the discussion. but it is important that we have that debate with our citizens. because public support for the european project is crucial.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have here, as mr cofferati has just said, an important point at the head, a matter which is absolutely part of the 2020 strategy, when we talk about new skills which should also bring us new jobs. it is very difficult to determine now what jobs will be needed in the next ten years and then to set quotas to train people for them. it's not working. what works is a continuous system where people are retrained, retrained and retrained, and with that retrained, retrained and retrained, we have to make sure that we are ready for any future job market. special attention is needed for young people. special attention should also be paid to the elderly who are unemployed. we said we wanted more hands in the labor force. we think our pensions should be guaranteed. the only way to do that is to get more people working. so i say: young hands, but also the old ones. we really need to create programs to retrain, retraine and retrain them and then not talk about it for 20 years, but actually make it work. we must ensure that we get a better labour market, which also solves many more problems.
mr president, i would like to say to the minister that this debate is not about time schedules for breastfeeding but all about priorities: priorities of men and women, and priorities of the european union. like men, women should also have the right both to work and have a family without having to choose. in the europe 2020 strategy we aim to reach a 75% employment rate for women. to achieve this, immediate measures are necessary. in the eu we are working towards a competitive and inclusive economy. thinking that all the responsibilities of having children should be endured by women alone is outdated but, unfortunately, still reality. we should promote shared responsibility and stress the role of both parents in raising children. the maternity leave directive is stuck with the council. this diminishes our chances of achieving the europe 2020 goals. would the council agree to a gradual implementation of the directive? what is your stance towards paternity leave? would you agree on our proposals regarding the length of maternity leave and the level of payments? what is poland planning to do to facilitate a compromise? we expect a constructive approach from the council, because we are losing valuable time in achieving true gender equality.
mr president, we do not need to debate with each other on the need for maternity leave, long maternity leave and paid maternity leave. we've all heard that argument. what we have to do now is to make this debate go smoothly. there are two ways to do that. either the presidency answers parliament, which has asked too much: "i'll set it at 18 weeks, i can put that on hold, i'll leave paternity out". that was actually the proposal made by mrs plumb in the social affairs committee at the time, a sensible proposal. that is a possibility which you can put to the member states. the second possibility is that you and the commission - and i do not see the commission here - can withdraw the proposal. and if the commission withdraws the proposal, it can come back with a new proposal. i'm actually wondering why we're not on that course. we have said as the ppe group: "there's too much to ask, and when there's too much to ask, we go to the beach". that's what happened. but there are two possibilities and i ask the presidency to come up with a new initiative. come up with a new proposal that calls for less. look again at mrs plumb's proposal, which unfortunately was voted down in the s&d group, and then come back. i think we can work something out.
mr president, i have a very strong feeling of déjà vu today. again this parliament wants to increase the expenditure side and again there is no political will to cut back. parliament even manages to ask for more money than the commission for certain things, such as 3 million for the turkish cypriots, millions more for money-grabbing agencies, 20 million for pilot projects, 139 million for hopeless projects such as climate change, wind energy and ideas, 27 million extra for developing countries such as iran, iraq, yemen, latin america. and as a blow to the arrow, an extra 100 million for the palestinian territories. it is the insolence of this house here that i am most sorry to see. it is always demanding more and more and thus completely ignoring the citizens who are going through a very difficult time. there's one bright spot. today's result must be returned to the wise and prudent council, where the netherlands can veto it.
i would like to confine myself this morning to one aspect, namely the use of the flexibility instrument for 2012 for two purposes: the neighbourhood programme and research and development. both of these key points have a high added value at eu level and there are also serious shortcomings in implementation. i was an observer on sunday in tunisia's first free elections. the arab spring is calling for strength, for visibility of the european union, for concrete support in terms of further democratization and reconstruction. and r & d, the seventh framework programme, is essential for competitiveness, now and in the future. the use of the flexibility instrument gives us the opportunity to send an important signal today on these two priorities. i therefore call on the council, on behalf of the ppe, to agree to this.
mr president, i will not support the proposed increase in the budget. the majority of this parliament wants to increase commitments by almost 4% and payments by over 5%. this is in sharp contrast to what is happening in all the capitals of europe at the moment. there is a lot of work being done to cut back and balance expenditure and revenue. parliament closed its eyes to reality and continued the trend of recent years: more, more, more. the new proposals are moving in the right direction in one respect. the committee on budgets has adopted a proposal i made to freeze 15% of travel costs. first the secretary-general of parliament must prove that more money is indeed needed for travel, and then we will decide next spring whether and how to make that 15% available. i think this is becoming the standard procedure in any budgetary procedure.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. the liberal group has taken the position that the commission is responsible for the implementation of the budget and that the council and parliament should not want to be micromanaging. we have confidence in the commission and we do not want to go into too much detail. control comes after. the main issue for the liberal group so far has been adherence to an earlier agreement in the interinstitutional agreement that member states will make a member state declaration every year. so far, that has been almost a dead letter, and we find that highly regrettable. we will insist that it be included in the financial regulation again and this time it is a key point for the liberal group. another point of discussion: should we introduce a tolerable risk of error? the liberal group is of the opinion that it is not. we must adhere to the standards and if the implementation of the budget is too complicated and too expensive to control, then we must not do it.
in writing. - we are rightly very concerned about the stability of europe. what investors are eagerly awaiting should be the adage here as well: a politically consistent course of reform and austerity. unfortunately, the european parliament does not show any such interest. parliament wants the european union to spend 5.23% more next year. this amounts to over 6.5 billion euros. this increase is unjustifiable. the eu budget is to be presented by the member states. in times of painful austerity and public debt levels that are endangering public finances and deepening the crisis, this is an unacceptable fiscal policy. and what will the european union do with the 133 billion requested? if it is up to the european parliament, the eu 2020 strategy should be the focus. this is particularly the case in the areas of social, education and labour market policy, which are pre-eminently areas of policy where member states have competence and can take the most effective action. these days, however, the debate is not about the long-term strategy but about the stability of the euro and of europe itself. the consequences of bad fiscal policy: spending more than is good for years. are we making the same mistake in the adoption of the annual eu budget, especially in this time of crisis?
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the recasting of the common tax system for parent companies and subsidiaries from different member states (giegold), because it is a step in the right direction. however, this does not change the fact that a more fundamental change is needed to solve the problems of tax evasion and avoidance through, for example, letter boxes.
in writing. − the sp has fundamental objections to risky innovative eu funding instruments.
the commissioner has just said something that gives hope, because if we do nothing, antibiotics are not the solution, they are the problem for life. every year, 25,000 people in the eu die untreatably because bacteria in their bodies are resistant to antimicrobials. we're using the wrong medicine at the wrong scale and for the wrong purposes. antibiotics should be prescribed by a medical professional for a specific problem. but it's not going the way it's supposed to. half the population is already taking antibiotics for a cold or flu, wrongly. not only are antibiotics prescribed to sick people by a doctor, but healthy people also get them through their food, by eating meat that has been deliberately contaminated with them because antibiotics have been given to animal feed as a preventive measure. the perverse effect is that our livestock farmers in particular are exposed to great health risks from the aggressive mrsa bacteria. we have been blind to the side effects and the long-term effects, including on the environment, for too long. we've always focused on the operation in the present and the effect on the individual, but at the same time we've been saddling the collective and our posterity with deadly consequences. i often have fundamental criticisms of the eu's interventionist approach, but here we have a health problem that really justifies international intervention. crossborder action is the only recipe for curbing this serious health problem. i hope that the council and the commission will not be immune to the action points we have drawn up as parliament, and i hope that the council and the commission will complete the whole course.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. sometimes you can rely on your own experience, and i'll do that here. i know from experience of visiting doctors in, say, belgium or france, that it seems that those doctors do not want to disappoint you as a patient and you come back from the doctor with a big bag full of medication, including very often antibiotics. not to mention a continent like africa, where i was once advised to peel from a large candy jar to take a firm handful of antibiotic tablets! how different is that in my own country, the netherlands. we're very careful about antibiotics in humans. you'd have to beg a doctor on your knees for a cure for your sickness. on the other hand, in the netherlands, farm animals do not have to beg for medicines on their knees, no, they are forced to do so. they're being given large doses of antibiotics without being asked. unfortunately, the netherlands is a champion in the use of antibiotics in animals. mrs mcavan also mentioned the strong lobby of those who doubt the link between use in livestock farming and resistance affecting humans. in the netherlands, pig farmers and their families and people working on pig farms are treated separately in hospitals. just because of the danger of resistant bacteria. that's how big the risk is. the risks are so great that we cannot let this go unchecked. i am therefore very pleased that mr dalli, on behalf of the commission, is planning to come up with a very ambitious proposal. i hope that this will be followed up after 18 november with strong legislation, because unfortunately we cannot leave this to the member states alone.
mr president, this is the second time in six months that we have spoken about antibiotic resistance. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. but you could also read in it that we may be far too fragmented on this subject. and i think that's where you're really putting your finger on the problem. we're looking at this problem in a way that's far too fragmented. it becomes an animal husbandry versus public health debate, when the two are intertwined and only an integral approach offers a solution. honor where it's due. this resolution does indeed address all these aspects. i think it could have been a little brighter in certain respects. i'll check the ranch first. this is rightly pointed out, because despite some progress, the use in animal husbandry is still far too high. in my member state, the netherlands, all the parties involved, from farmers to supermarkets, have therefore sat down and agreed to reduce consumption by 20% this year and by 50% in 2013. that is a high ambition, commissioner, and perhaps an inspiration for the plans you are going to propose. then the humane consumption. i think the text is still too soft. we have to monitor, we have to inform, that's all fine. but it's just illegal to sell antibiotics without a prescription. research shows that in some member states this prohibition is still circumvented by pharmacies who offer these products to consumers on a mass basis, including without a prescription. we are rightly asking for a lot of effort from the livestock industry, but we are not going to solve the problem of antibiotic resistance as long as in some countries in europe we are still running to the pharmacy for the first cold, and i agree with my colleague from the communist group, running directly to the pharmacy for our next shot. i am therefore pleased, commissioner, we have often been at each other's throats in this chamber, but i am pleased with your proposal and, moreover, i am happy to add a tooth.
we all agree that antibiotic resistance is a life-threatening threat: there are pneumonia outbreaks that can't be treated, hospitals that are dealing with mrsa cases, outbreaks of ehec. we agree on that. you say the approach is difficult, and that's why i have six rules for you against resistance. firstly, we must no longer prescribe preventive medicines but curative ones, i.e. we must treat the animal with antibiotics only when it is sick and then only this animal and not the whole herd. treat a sick animal like a sick human being. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. secondly: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive. obligation to take the intermediate step via the pharmacy if it is also clear that it can only be supplied on prescription. this was found to lead to a direct and large reduction in use in denmark. moreover, it leads to more surveillance, which brings me to my third point: good statistics on the use and prescription of antibiotics. for what disease, what animal and in what region? this allows comparisons, including with human diseases, and then there is more insight into the possible jump from animal diseases to humans and the emergence of resistance. fourthly: enter a head-up system. reduction to healthy and safe minimum standards. in this way we can compare what is a safe minimum standard and each time there has to be an adjustment from all countries to the safe and healthy minimum standard. fifth: fully invested in research. it has been found that only five of the world's 15 major pharmaceutical companies are involved in antibiotic research. the innovation union has said that we need to avoid fragmentation and duplication. let's say we really put our minds to it and investigate possible alternatives. and sixth: we must end intensive livestock farming, change the consumption of meat, because that's where it all starts. that's the beginning and the end of the whole problem.
tomorrow, mr president, we are voting on a very important directive to combat the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. these violations must stop and that is why i support the report. i would like to draw your attention to three points. first of all: cooperation. criminal gangs, active in child pornography and sexual exploitation, often operate across borders. by working together, police and prosecutors can map the entire chain of their malign activities. their punishment must cover all aspects of their work. of course, international criminals will always pretend to operate in relatively small units, in order to minimize their role. but this fable must be exposed. the criminals are traffickers, and they operate ruthlessly and without borders. secondly: victim support. last week, i organized a meeting with my romanian colleague buşoi on human trafficking and sexual exploitation. aid organizations from western and eastern europe were also present. they help women and children who have been victims of sexual exploitation. they do this because various governments do little in this area. in countries such as hungary and romania, women and children who are victims do not always receive the right help. but article 18 of the draft directive says that member states must help child victims. several of the remainder-of-me morgues in central and eastern europe are full of young girls, some as young as 16. i call on the eastern european member states to take the directive to heart and to take victim support seriously, and on the commission to ensure that it is given. thirdly: the prevention of accidents. we find little of that in the directive, and there is much to be improved. i support the rapporteur who calls on national authorities to do more to prevent this. and my question to the commission is: how will member states be accountable for prevention programmes?
child abuse is a nightmare for any parent and an indescribably traumatic experience for the child and for society as a whole. no one, including institutions, should get away with child abuse or be above the law. in several eu countries, horrific cases have come to light. in the netherlands we witnessed a terrible and widespread abuse. a whole network of abusers was rounded up. a man born in latvia, who had already been convicted in germany, could simply go to work in a nursery in amsterdam, without the previous conviction being known. he used the internet to spread pictures of his abuse of very, very young children. employers, but also organisations working with volunteers, should be able to know about previous convictions. a declaration of conduct, which is required for these types of appeals, will be linked to the european criminal register, which will be operational in 2012. i am very pleased that this proposal of mine has been accepted by both parliament and the council. cross-border abuse, such as sex tourism, we will address. citizens of member states who abuse children in other countries will be punished. and we also need to protect our children on the internet, because every click, every look at a picture or a video of an abused child is a repeated abuse of that child. approaching children on the internet for sexual purposes will be made a criminal offence. victims need protection and very careful follow-up, including in criminal proceedings. the adoption of this improved legislation will help us to create a safer europe for our children.
i would like to thank mrs lambert and congratulate her on this enormous step, because we can say that the european parliament is doing its job. we have reaffirmed our support for a common european asylum and migration policy and we are not responsible for its failure to take off. the promises are there and we have made a promise to each other that we will reach a common policy in 2012. i am a little afraid that we will not be able to make any progress at next week's justice and home affairs council. the european parliament knows what it is doing, but i fear that the member states are going to roll down the street with each other. and one indication i have is that there are now proposals on the table from the member states to not change so much in dublin, to not end up with a solidarity clause, whereby countries that receive little refugee flow help countries that receive a lot of refugees. no, it looks at new short-term measures, at statistics, at how frontex can be used a little more to protect borders. it does not look at how we can ensure that the european union is a place where you feel safe, where you can flee, where you can be sure that you will be given shelter. we have here the qualification directive which at least draws a line on what a refugee is. the council and the next directives are now needed to determine what refugees can expect and how to ensure that they can quickly start a new life in society.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to congratulate mr lambert on the result achieved. we are dealing with a reporter's jerk. it has had the opportunity to explicitly include gender identity as a ground for prosecution. this is extremely important for all transgender people, who are unfortunately often persecuted in the world just for who they are. the protection of children is also now better regulated, especially as regards the tracing of parents of unaccompanied minors. it is regrettable that it has not been possible to achieve a common approach in the field of social security for refugees and other persons enjoying international protection, but at least there has been progress in this area too. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. we fear that the adoption of the qualification directive is the beginning of an à la carte approach and that in the end no agreement will be reached on reception and procedural standards and, as mr sargentini said, perhaps half-hearted results will be achieved on other points. i know that jean lambert understands this and that she knows what our reservations are, even though she herself has made a different assessment. i hope that she is right and we are wrong and that the adoption of this directive will not affect the package of asylum proposals. it is therefore very important that both commissioner malmström and the polish presidency confirm that this principle is still a reality for them. i wish commissioner malmström in particular every success in preserving that package as a whole.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to start by saying how satisfied i am with the cooperation between the commission, the council and the parliament. the parliament last year set out very clear criteria for the transfer of pnr data to third countries. the commission then put forward a very good package in line with those criteria, and the council very swiftly adopted a negotiating mandate. i think this example demonstrates that, if the three institutions work together, europe is a force to be reckoned with. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, axel voss, birgit sippel, timothy kirkhope, jan albrecht, rui tavares and, more recently, cornelia ernst. even if we do not agree on every single detail i think the pnr team has worked in a very constructive spirit. as rapporteur, i recommend in my draft report that this house gives its consent to the conclusion of an agreement with australia on the transfer of pnr data. i think the recommendation will get wide support, and i am very happy with that. however, that does not mean that all concerns and reservations have been met. there are still some doubts and hesitations. for this reason, some groups in this house will withhold their vote or vote against. i fully understand their objections, and i share most of their concerns. however, they know as well as i do that a ‘no’ vote will not stop the transfer of data. we are not voting on the actual transfer, we can only vote on the conditions governing the transfer of data. a ‘no’ vote, therefore, is purely symbolic. for that reason, i will also not endorse the gue group’s call for a consultation of the european court of justice, although i have great sympathy for that proposal. we have assessed the draft agreement against the criteria that we set out last year and given a positive assessment on a number of points, in particular the limitation of the ‘purpose’ definition. it has been considerably tightened, and includes only the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime. i think that is a very important achievement. we have also ensured that the method of transfer will be ‘push’ exclusively. that is very important, also in view of future agreements. there are also some other positive points. however there are also a couple of remaining concerns, as i said initially. the most fundamental point is that the necessity and proportionality of the mass collection and storage of data has been demonstrated only partially, and not sufficiently. secondly, no justification has been given for the long-term storage of identifiable data of all travellers. the retention period of five and a half years appears to be fairly random, and was not based on any specific evidence. finally, the appropriate legal basis for the agreement should be – or in any case include – article 16 of the treaties, on data protection. if you retrace the history of these agreements back to 2003, the purpose of this agreement has been, from the very start, exclusively to ensure that the transfer of data to third countries is in line with eu data protection standards. therefore, the only proper legal base can be article 16 and nothing else. if the purpose were exclusively police and justice cooperation, the eu could theoretically decide against the collection of pnr data by australia. but it cannot, because it is a sovereign and unilateral decision by australia to collect these data. finally, we need a political assurance by the commission that the agreement remains the joint responsibility of the three eu institutions, each with its own role. if, in future, the european parliament notes serious deficiencies in the application of the agreement, we expect the commission to respond and to take appropriate action including, if necessary, the submission of proposals for the suspension or termination of the agreement. i would like to ask the presidency of this house to see to it that these assurances, as expressed today and noted in the minutes, are confirmed by an exchange of letters with the commission.
mr president, it is now clear that the greens will vote against this agreement with australia. it remains completely unclear what australia actually wants to do with the personal data of european travellers. this parliament has asked for a guarantee that australia will not profile the personal data in order to treat passengers who are not suspected differently on the basis of that profile. we didn't get that guarantee. of course, we didn't get that guarantee, because profiling is the reason why governments -- and not just australia, but also the united states and canada and perhaps in the future the european union -- want to collect passenger data. - why? - why? there is still no evidence that storing passenger data helps in the fight against terrorism. if law enforcement agencies are looking for the details of a particular passenger, they can pull them from airlines. they don't throw that information away after the passenger gets out. so you don't have to keep it somewhere in the government for five and a half years. five and a half years in australia, and decades in the united states, and who knows how long the retention period in the european pnr will be for the future. i reject the rapporteur's argument that this agreement with australia has a positive effect on the negotiations with the usa and canada. this agreement seems to me to be more of a harbinger of how bad the next agreements can be. long retention periods, the transfer of data to other agencies, even foreign intelligence services, and the risk of europeans being denied entry on the basis of their profile. no, this is not a symbolic 'no' vote by the greens, because if this parliament were to say 'no', that agreement would be illegal and the transfer of data would be illegal. that is why we support the request for an inquiry into the fundamental rights in the pnr.
rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i would like to address a few words to my friends in the green group and the gue/ngl group, though unfortunately jan albrecht has left. we are politicians. we are not activists. sometimes we face very different dilemmas. i think everybody in this house – and this has been expressed by every single speaker – is facing those dilemmas, but we have to take tough decisions. sometimes it hurts, and it hurts all of us – even the ones who are going to vote in favour. i would like to say to ms sargentini, who spoke about the consequences of rejecting the agreement, saying that, if we reject the agreement, the transfer of data will become illegal and can no longer be transferred. that is true, but then what? are we going to suspend air travel altogether? i recognise that this would fit in with another green objective, namely that of reducing co2 emissions, which is a good objective, but it is not very realistic. frankly, unless you can provide a credible alternative, a ‘no’ vote is purely symbolic and cheap. secondly, i would like to remind colleagues that we have to stick together because this is only the first step, as my colleague mr kelly rightly said. this is the first agreement. it is also the first step in a long process. it is the first reversal of the trend of unrestricted collection of data, and we are facing other negotiations. we are in the middle of very tough negotiations with canada and the united states. it is more important than ever that we stick together, that we show the rest of the world that europe is united and that we do stand up for fundamental rights. in this respect i would very much like to echo in particular the words of my colleague, ms sippel, about ‘push-pull’. we have emphasised very strongly how important it is that this agreement concerns ‘push’ only and not ‘pull’. that was in parliament’s resolution and we will stick by it in the agreement with australia and in other agreements that follow.
i would like to congratulate mr diamandouros on his excellent work. unfortunately, transparency is still a major complaint ground. as a european parliament we can speak with you on this. i have had an intensive dialogue with the commission, together with like-minded meps from all the major groups, on the lack of transparency in the composition and working methods of its expert groups. we have not received any answers to our questions, either in plenary or in the form of a letter. in the end, we had to block the budget line in question yesterday until the commission complied with our wishes. access to documents is a similar case. we're facing a wall of resistance. the commission is sticking to its proposals to give less access to documents than is required by the existing rules. it is therefore not surprising that the ombudsman sent a special report to parliament on this very subject last year. the reason was a complaint about the commission's refusal to give access to letters from porsche to former commissioner verheugen on co2 emissions from cars. a very good question, because those letters could have shown the extent of the conflict of interest between the commissioner and the car industry. it is extremely regrettable that the commission in this case did not respond in any way to the ombudsman's legitimate demands. the commission, through its fear of publicity, is creating a climate of suspicion in this parliament and among the public. i wish the ombudsman much courage and perseverance in his further work.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). a credible and effective approach is therefore urgently needed. as far as is known, the main lines of the agreement reached have been received with a moderate degree of approval. however, there are important caveats. first, market confidence will have to be restored on the basis of the quality of governance in the deeply indebted member states. above all, investors must now determine whether this package is compelling. secondly: the size of the emergency fund. it is not as high as economists and central bankers would like. the question is whether this element is future-proof. thirdly: the privatisation programme of greece. it is unclear on what the optimism for an additional 15 billion in privatisations is based. the results achieved so far do not give sufficient reason for such optimism. fourthly: the level of elaboration. i am thinking for example of the value of the private sector write-downs on greek government bonds, a crucial element on which the banking sector needs to work with the authorities so that this is clear by the end of 2011. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. the european banking authority has yet to work out its business on the basis of more recent september capital requirements figures, and estimates have shown considerable variation in this area in recent times. a fifth crucial point concerns economic governance. the question is: are there sufficient safeguards to prevent future problems? the council's conclusions do not include any agreement on the strengthening of the enforcement of budgetary standards or on a fundamental approach to the imbalances in the balance of trade and payments. has legislation been put on the table to deal more effectively with these cases? i am of course pleased that the legislative package to strengthen the stability and growth pact has been rapidly introduced and that the powers of the commissioner for budgets have been strengthened. but the wording of this last aspect in paragraph 28 of the council's conclusions is anything but reassuring.
president, mr rutte and other heads of government have called this an historic agreement. i said: that's not true! once again they have been held hostage by the financial markets, once again they are going to help the banks and once again the taxpayer is being presented with the bill. how long is this madness going to last? multinationals are making big profits: bp made a net profit of eur 3.5 billion in the third quarter. are these profits now being taxed more heavily, or is the mantra of cuts in benefits and public services, of increases in vat, sufficient? these are all issues that are hitting the weakest and the smes and are leading to a vicious circle of unemployment, shrinkage and even more government deficits. this vicious cycle must be broken. take on the speculators, never fall into the trap of deregulation again. without deregulation, the reserves of the banks would have been in order long ago. there's a lot of uncertainty. are bonuses from directors and other bankers now prohibited if banks receive aid? why aren't bonuses banned anyway? what has been decided on the separation of risky and other activities of banks? a historic agreement? - no, i did not. it's mostly the same thing.
the dutch citizen has been the largest net payer to the european union for many years and now the dutch citizen is the second largest payer of greece's debts. pensions in the netherlands are falling and the purchasing power of the dutch is falling again. the dutch are sick of it. the euro is a failed project and the people in this room are responsible for it. it is the old elitist parties, the christian democrats, the social democrats and the liberals, who are all full of it. verhofstadt, schulz, daul and your applause machines in this room, you are all partly responsible for the stupid choices you have made for this impossible eurozone. and that without asking the european or dutch citizen whether he agrees with that. there was never a referendum. but those ordinary citizens have to pay the bill. the dutch have already paid over eur 10 000 per family for this debt crisis and that amount will continue to rise enormously, at least if it is up to mr barroso. the greek and italian debt mountain is divided into 'jan modaal', 'average joe' and 'otto normalverbraucher'. again, without any referendum, it is a disgrace. yesterday it was decided that the banks should be recapitalised and that they should write off greek bonds at the same time. that is impossible, at least for the greek banks. it means in plain english that the banks that speculate with savings and pay top salaries will have to get dutch tax money. yes, dutch and german taxpayers will have to bleed to keep the greek banks afloat. that is the only outcome of this summit. most of the members of the european parliament in this chamber think that is wonderful too. yes, the parliamentarians, the responsible people in this chamber, can all pay for it easily, but "jan modaal", "average joe" and "otto normalverbraucher" will not get it for free. they will not get a 5% increase, as parliament allocated to itself yesterday. in this day and age, to increase your own budget by 5%, as happened yesterday, is really shameless. i ask all my colleagues: aren't you ashamed of yourself? or do you hope your constituents won't see that, that you can get away with this like a thief in the night? increasing your own budget and at the same time burdening the taxpayers with the debts of others is typical of this sham parliament and the christian democrats. but at the same time, i was proud to speak yesterday in the interest of the hardworking dutch taxpayer.
president, i would like to thank president van rompuy and president barroso for being here after a few hours of sleep. you both deserve applause for the result achieved tonight. your presence here underlines the institutional importance of this european parliament as a democratically elected body. i would also like to congratulate commissioner rehn on his appointment as 'mr euro'. you must now have the instruments to act in the context of our more intensive but also more compelling budgetary and socioeconomic cooperation. we have laid the foundations for this in the six-pack, but we must continue with the newly announced legislative proposals to intensify budgetary discipline in the euro area, but also socioeconomic cooperation. you can count on us to be your allies again. on tuesday i said in this house that we should protect the euro with a bazooka. it's a very complicated bazooka, but if we work together to make it work, it can work. commission, heads of government, ecb, this parliament, let us not now exhaust ourselves in criticism in the eyes of the world, but let us show solidarity in the eyes of the world and join hands to make this work, because then we can get out of this crisis.
in writing. − the gue group abstained from voting on the qualification directive because we strongly protest against the splitting up of the asylum package. we do not want to vote on single directives before substantial progress is made on all files, and do not support the pick-and-choose behaviour of the council towards the package. we do, however, want to highlight the major improvements which the rapporteur, ms lambert, was able to ensure in the final version, including gender identity as grounds for asylum, respect for family unity and better protection of the interests of the child.
author. − mr president, before a doctor begins to practise, he or she swears to help those in need of medical help, indiscriminately. that is a universally-applied principle. bahraini doctors, many of whom were educated here in the eu, did just that. amidst a violent government-led crackdown on peaceful protesters these doctors risked their lives to assist fellow citizens in need. they have now been convicted by military courts and received draconian sentences of up to 15 years for fulfilling their obligations. the allegations seem fabricated and politically-motivated. we observe worrying trends. one is that of targeted attacks against doctors and paramedics but, more broadly, military trials for civilians. the abuse of emergency laws is of great concern. that must end. we condemn these highly cynical abuses of power and demand the unconditional release of the bahraini doctors and all other political prisoners, including bloggers. it is not only the bahraini government that needs to be addressed here; eu companies have played an unpleasant role in the crackdown. some have been laying off workers at the demand of the government and others have provided surveillance technology. these practices, as well as any and all weapon exports, must stop and human rights must be respected.
author. − mr president, rafah nached gives a face to the people behind the numbers, reflecting the cost of the unspeakable violence and injustice in syria. we are all eyewitnesses to what is happening. on the internet we can see the disproportionate, government-led violence against unarmed citizens. we can see the brave demonstrators defying fear and risking their lives to get stories out. holding a cell phone can be a reason to be shot by a sniper. women are being raped and children tortured and mutilated. parents who receive the bodies of their murdered children hide them and bury them in secret because the government also attacks funerals. i am speechless and furious at the same time. bashar al-assad’s government and his collaborators have no legitimacy whatsoever. the international community lacks a un mandate because china and russia object to a un security council resolution, but the eu can, and must, do more. firstly, we must call for an international criminal court investigation into the crimes committed and, secondly, we must demand targeted sanctions for those who violate human rights. we are syria’s most important trading partner and therefore we need to apply targeted sanctions to the economic elites and give them a clear choice: doing business with europe means doing no business with bashar al-assad. we must also make sure that eu-made ict products that censor and spy on syrians do not end up in the hands of the repressors, because that is continuing to happen. we must continue, with turkey, to end the unspeakable violence in syria.
i think, mr president, that the liberalisation of rail freight transport really offers a future for this sector. in my country, infrastructure management was decoupled from rail freight in 2002, with the positive effect of halting and reversing a decline in freight transport that had been going on for years. the prospect of real growth and opportunities for entrepreneurs was restored. the european commission also wants to continue liberalisation with the revision of the first railway package. but this parliament has managed to discuss everything but genuine liberalization on this subject. i think that's a missed opportunity. too many colleagues have turned a deaf ear to protectionist railways, to poorly functioning national railway companies or to railway unions, with the last sentence of amendment no 53 as its point of departure, which keeps infrastructure managers financially too closely linked to freight transport. so it's not a real divorce. i therefore vote against this report despite the good work of the rapporteur. in the railway sector, too many old-fashioned protectionist views still exist in the majority in this house. this means that the future of rail freight transport is being put on hold.
mr president, we all seem to agree on the importance of bees. but then when i read this report, i don't find any really fundamental criticism of how our agricultural model works at the moment. the solution is even being sought in support of the pharmaceutical industry to make even more drugs, when we know that's where the problem is coming from, or in putting a few flower strips around farm guards. that would be the solution. that is why there is an alternative resolution with clearer criticism and also a clearer reference to our precautionary principle. that means: the neonicotinoids should be withdrawn from the market at this time because they have been shown to play a role many times. it must be done now. we must also be very clear about genetically modified drugs. there are enough signs to apply the precautionary principle now. that's the key. and also very important, our agricultural model needs to change. we need to do more crop rotation, less monocultures. these are issues that need to be tackled at a fundamental level. only then can we really solve the bee problem.
mr president, i will be very brief. i also support the alternative resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow. isn't it true that we've always explained fertility to our children by starting with bees? it 's very clear . and if the bees are gone, not only can we not explain what's going on, but we're going to lose fertility, we're going to lose the methods of farming, the methods of ultimately providing our food. so little by little we are changing the whole of nature, because our farms are using too many pesticides in the wrong way, because we are over-monoculturing and because we are actually dealing with nature and agriculture in too industrial a way. so, please, let's go back to biology, to the bees, and to the beginning.
in writing. this item was given the lovely title honey bees. even more important to our food supply than pure quality husbandry, i find their pollination function. bees are insignificant but useful to agriculture and our ecosystem. i repeat today that no possible cause of the mass bee death should be excluded from consideration by this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that means: i'm going to be looking very hard at the influence of the parasites, the varroa mite. the lethal effect of plant protection products - also known as pesticides - cannot be ruled out in advance. nor are we concerned about the far-reaching effects of gmo monoculture farming, the radiation from gsm traffic, climate change or the fine particles from diesel engines that could subtly disrupt the navigation of bees. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. producers, including those of genetically modified material, should not obstruct scientific research but cooperate with it. for once, can we not be concerned with making money but with the environment, food supply, animal welfare and hobby hunters? bees are not an accessory to our lives, but a staple.
in writing. the resolution contains a number of suggestions for a european consumer policy which are both political and patchy and which the pvv cannot accept. the resolution calls for "more sustainable consumption patterns" to reduce co2 emissions; consumers should be made more aware; and 'ensure that consumer policy is better aligned with social and environmental objectives'. in other words, a typical leftist agenda imposed on consumers and member states. the european parliament is clearly assuming that consumers cannot make informed choices themselves. and since when have member states ceased to be able to conduct their own consumer policy? the pvv cannot accept this unnecessary european interference. it therefore votes against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the belgian economist geert noels called gambling a tax on stupidity. i would add that gambling is also a source of personal suffering: gambling leads to addiction and debt. the creutzmann report calls on the european commission to come up with european rules for online gambling. that arrangement should make gambling transparent and - you won't believe it - fair. now gambling can never be an honest sport, because gambling operators are always concerned about making a profit (the house always wins). if european rules on online gambling do come into being, they will not ensure that gambling operators from outside the eu will follow these eu rules. these providers are not bound by european rules. it is possible to restrict access to such websites within the eu, but in that case i suggest taking the easy way out. namely, to recognise that gambling is harmful to gamblers, their families and society, and therefore to ban online gambling across europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report but have the following observations to make:- i oppose any innovative mechanisms which enhance financial risks such as the eu 2020 project bonds mentioned in paragraph 14;- according to the lisbon treaty the eu has no competence in the fields of culture and education (referring to paragraph 31);- i interpret paragraph 22 as follows: any eu bilateral trade agreement should meet the highest standards and requirements, including the acceptance of the public-sector provisions of sgei and ssgi in partner countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it makes an important call on the commission and member states in the midst of an economic crisis, to step up their efforts in combating poverty in the eu as they have committed themselves by endorsing the eu 2020 strategy. just before the vote on this report, the council reached a compromise to prevent a sudden ending of the food distribution scheme for the most deprived by continuing it until 2013. i am relieved that member states and food banks will now have the time to prepare themselves for the consequences of a reformed common agricultural policy. this report calls for a continuation of the scheme for the period 2014-2020 as well. i personally believe that the commission and member states should work towards social and employment policies that enable people to live a life in dignity, without having to rely on free food distribution. i therefore do not support a structural continuation of the food distribution scheme in the eu, making it a permanent element in the anti-poverty strategy of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it makes an important call on the commission and member states in the midst of an economic crisis, to step up their efforts in combating poverty in the eu as they have committed themselves by endorsing the eu 2020 strategy. just before the vote on this report, the council reached a compromise to prevent a sudden ending of the food distribution scheme for the most deprived by continuing it until 2013. i am relieved that member states and food banks will now have the time to prepare themselves for the consequences of a reformed common agricultural policy. this report calls for a continuation of the scheme for the period 2014-2020 as well. i personally believe that the commission and member states should work towards social and employment policies that enable people to live a life in dignity, without having to rely on free food distribution. i therefore do not support a structural continuation of the food distribution scheme in the eu, making it a permanent element in the anti-poverty strategy of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it makes an important call to the commission and member states, in the midst of an economic crisis, to step up their efforts to combat poverty in the eu, as they undertook to do by endorsing the europe 2020 strategy. just before the vote on this report, the council reached a compromise to prevent a sudden ending of the food distribution scheme for the most deprived, by continuing it until 2013. i am relieved that member states and food banks will now have time to prepare themselves for the consequences of a reformed common agricultural policy. this report calls for a continuation of the scheme for the period 2014-2020. however, i personally believe that the commission and the member states should work towards social and employment policies that enable people to live a life in dignity without having to rely on free food distribution. i therefore do not support a structural continuation of the food distribution scheme in the eu, making it a permanent element in the union’s anti-poverty strategy.
mr president, of course the financial crisis is at the heart of the commission work programme for 2012. the ambitions in it are both welcome and late. it takes time to realise the need to tackle financial markets and to limit our risks if you have ideological spectacles that prevent you from seeing the obvious. as the s&d spokesperson on development, i am much more positive about the commission proposals for the external action by the eu in our relations with the rest of the world. i am glad to see the commission making a case for a common european approach at the wto, g20, g8 – this should be a key part of our external relations next year. europe is only 5% of the world’s population: if we want to be heard on the world stage, we have to join forces. i appreciate that we must respond quickly and flexibly to changing situations outside europe, as we did in the case of the arab spring – slowly in the case of tunisia, but increasingly effective afterwards. however, it is unacceptable that we betray long-term development programmes in one part of the world in order to fund short-term foreign policy gains in another. we should do both. i am extremely pleased to see that the commission has promised to keep up pressure for a financial transaction tax. an ftt will prove vital in providing a fair share of the finance we need to help developing countries escape the devastating cycle of poverty. closer to home, i believe that the forthcoming signing of the accession treaty with croatia is proof of the credibility of the eu’s enlargement policy. europe is a magnet that attracts countries towards democracy and an open society. finally, the upcoming review of the many different financial envelopes in external relations should be seen as an opportunity to strengthen the european external policy. this is where the political weight of the eu has to be most effective in working at a world order based on the rights of citizens, on the rule of law, on democracy, social rights and sustainable development.
mr president, let me start in a positive way because there are a lot of critics in this house. the european commission came up with a general regulation on all the eu’s shared management funds for the regions, for fisheries and also for rural development. this is a positive step because we can make much more synergy between these different funds. we can throw out a lot of bureaucracy and we can be much clearer for all those partners and regions and states. but there is reason for criticism, because in this whole framework on the regulations for next year we are missing a common strategic framework. in this framework, the european commission will regulate all those practical things for the beneficiaries, and this is outside the legal package. this is a delegated act and this is something we cannot accept. so, take this in the whole legal package and you have parliament on your side. my second remark is about the solidarity fund. since 2006, parliament has expressed a wish to make it more flexible and also to use more money for prevention. we talked about natural disasters, but nothing came out of it. the european court blocked it. i say to the commission, this is your chance. parliament is on your side.
president. - we all know that in cancún the united nations was saved, not the climate. so climate must be at the top of the agenda in durban right now. the most important thing we have internationally is the kyoto protocol. so if there's one thing that needs to be done very clearly, because the kyoto protocol expires at the end of next year, if there's one thing that's important, it's that we have to continue the kyoto protocol, and we have to do it immediately. europe should not impose conditions on this, but simply say: we are in favour of continuing the kyoto protocol. you say, mrs hedegaard, that europe is not the problem, but why is it that we still do not have a clear idea of the rules governing the continuation of the kyoto protocol? what's going to happen to the hot air? if we really want to make a difference, we have to make sure that no hot air can be transferred from the first to the second period. i say the same to the polish presidency, i hope it will take strong action to ensure that this hot air cannot be carried over to the next period of kyoto. that's one. the other crucial point is indeed a clear timetable for a binding target in 2015. we need to make sure that by 2015 there is a binding target, with more countries than just the eu setting the rules. china is the key country here. we all know that in copenhagen we have been looking at the united states for too long. now the big key is china. if you look at what china is doing in terms of investment in renewable energy, but also in terms of energy saving, china is the country with which we as europe have to make deals. and we can just leave the u.s. out of it, because right now we don't have to expect anything from the u.s. finally, the leadership of the eu. you say: europe is leading. but we're leading less and less. australia already has plans where carbon taxes are higher than in europe. in japan, they have a more energy-efficient society. europe really needs to ensure that we maintain that leadership, and that means also that our own ambitions, our own climate ambitions, need to be clearly raised. we must therefore reduce more than the 20% we have been holding on to for years and which we will easily achieve. so more ambition of my own.
mr president, the un conference on climate change in south africa is about to discuss climate. that's great! it is possible that now something is finally going to happen to improve the political and social climate in south africa, which can be terribly described under the present anc apartheid regime. everything there needs to be improved. the fight against the enormous unemployment and hopelessness of young people, the fight against the terrible crime that runs through the spit holes, the tracing and prosecution of black radicals who murder the peasants on their own land, the "local murders", the fight for the preservation of the afrikaans language, the fight against the marginalisation of the anc's own people, because they are again discriminated against on the basis of skin colour. so the pvv is a big supporter of climate change in south africa, but that's not what's going to be discussed at this conference. unfortunately, it's about the supposed climate change again. a theory that only a single bigot now believes in. i have the distinct impression that interest in the subject is waning worldwide. i myself was asked many times to come to south africa. moreover, the ipcc itself seems to have finally come to the realization that global warming is hardly demonstrable. i quote from the draft report for durban: "the uncertainty about possible changes in climate extremes for the next few decades is quite high, because climate change signals will prove to be quite small compared to natural climate fluctuations". if the ipcc itself is already expressing doubts about the usefulness of durban, why on earth are members of parliament even going to durban? why are we spending taxpayers' money on this for any longer? so that's why the pvv won't go to durban. thank you very much.
president. - i too regret the council's absence this evening. i think, mr president, that we must try together to ensure that the council will be present when we discuss mr fjellner's discharge resolution sometime next year. the council cannot be absent from such debates, especially since 80% of the funds are spent by the member states in cooperation with the commission. i should like to thank the european court of auditors for the benevolent attitude it has always taken towards parliament. i think the cooperation is excellent and i hope it will continue to be so. the ultimate goal of all of us is still to get a positive das. we all know: the commission has not been able to do so for 17 years, and i agree with mr fjellner that the current stable situation is not satisfactory. it's getting better, but the ultimate goal has to be: two percent. we shall shortly be resuming the preparatory work for a new multiannual budget. legislation is also at the heart of this. it would be good if the court of auditors and the commission also published the points where they really see the bottlenecks. it is very good that certain countries are selected and i think that is what the commission should concentrate on. we in the committee on budgetary control have invited the finance ministers of these countries to provide texts and explanations. they have not yet responded to that invitation, but we hope that they will do so soon. the essential thing for parliament, and this was recently confirmed in a vote in this house, is that parliament still wants more political responsibility for expenditure in the member states themselves. this means that parliament, as it now looks, will insist that in the next period, unlike the current period, all member states issue a declaration of sound financial management of eu funds.
i would also like to thank the court of auditors, mr president, for the excellent report and the contribution which the commissioner has made to it. it's not just a matter of control, it's the business of the whole house here. i am the coordinator of regional policy for the cohesion funds and i will also be working on the new regulations for 2014-2020 as rapporteur. i am convinced that it is precisely with these regulations, the way in which we are laying down the rules, that we can achieve great successes. we did that for the current period 2007-2014. that's already improved considerably. we must also work together in this house. two points, though. the first is: we're calling countries by their names. i think that's a very good thing. then you can also work much more specifically towards these countries. if you can see that 60 percent of the errors are from a handful of countries, you can also provide customization. the second element is: public tender. 40% of the errors are in public procurement. what's really going on? on the one hand, the legislation may be too complex, but on the other hand, it is also due to countries lacking administrative capacity to implement the legislation properly. so either you are adjusting your legislation on this - the commission is now looking at this too - or we are giving better support, or countries are indeed being cut back much more. finally, financial innovation, financial engineering as we call it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there's a lot of profit to be made there.
the council of ministers is setting the right priorities for the busan conference on the effectiveness of development cooperation. indeed, to name just a few, parliaments and civil society should be better involved in policy making in developing countries. we also need to agree with emerging economies, china, india, that they will take care of their own poor. of course, our business community can play a greater role in the development of the economy in the south, although we must be careful not to return to tied aid, where development money flows back into our own pockets through orders to our business community. but it is essential for the european union that the effectiveness of development aid is linked to the coherence of policy. for example, the council's fine priorities mean nothing as long as our companies pay little or no tax in developing countries. with healthy tax revenues, our financial support would hardly be needed. i am therefore very pleased with the commission's very coherent proposals by michel barnier on the transparency directive. we can certainly tighten up his proposal on details, but if we understand what european mining companies, european forestry companies are doing in poor countries, we can much better call on those companies to take responsibility. finally, what will the commission do to ensure that member states deliver on their commitments to spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development cooperation in 2015? unfortunately, it turns out that a phone call alone is not enough. of course, this promise is under heavy pressure with the economic crisis, but the least the commission can do now is to start the discussion in a strong way about what needs to happen after 2015.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). in its temples, called hedge funds, stock exchanges and bonus banks, there is a feverish work to keep the money altars up. at the same time, we see all kinds of disasters happening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. never in history have so many people been depressed. europe has traded its christian roots of moderation, justice and mercy for money and goods. that is not the basis for a sustainable existence and a sustainable economic policy. the next european council would therefore do well to discuss some real administrative questions such as: how can we become a europe of standards and values again? what is the richness of our christian roots? how can we become worthy stewards of our fellowman and of creation? let the debate be on this, so that a new european vision is born, one that is future-proof.
madam president, the campaign season has clearly started in the united states, which means that there is less and less focus on the rest of the world. in europe, even though unfortunately we cannot elect the president of the commission or the council, we are equally inward-focused. this is undesirable and even dangerous. in times of crisis – and perhaps especially in times of crisis – we must work hard and work together to resist nationalism and protectionism and to break down existing non-tariff barriers specifically. this house has voiced its concern with the ‘buy american’ clauses that are being proposed in the context of growth and job acts in the united states. there is already a huge discrepancy between the openness of the european public procurement space for us bidders compared to the closed us market for eu-based companies to bid on tenders. the us business community is also worried that ‘buy american’ clauses will hurt exports and would undermine growth instead of fostering it. the us should not alienate, but rather embrace, its european allies. this is the moment to work towards a comprehensive transatlantic jobs and growth initiative. europe’s digital single market desperately needs to be completed. this would open up benefits for our own consumers, smes and businesses, but it would also allow for a more healthy trade relation with the us, and growth of our digital economies. one of the key issues on which the us and the eu should cooperate is therefore internet freedom and the free flow of information. when we think of a transatlantic market space, let us begin online where borders should matter least. as my colleague, mr lambsdorff said, we are worried about the information monopolies of certain companies. we must cooperate on standards, but i urge the americans to think twice before adopting the protect ip act or the stop online piracy act, which would lead the arms of us law enforcement to span the entire world and it would make the us lose its moral authority. imagine what the responses would be if china were to take down websites in the us or in europe itself. we do not want this to happen. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149(8))
madam president, indeed we should work together to ensure that there is internet freedom. on the one hand, data protection is an important subject, and a subject on which we have experts in the alliance of liberal and democrats for europe. on the other hand, internet freedom also impinges on the strategic foreign policy interests of both the united states and europe, and is a matter on which we could cooperate much more intensely. this would, for example, mean that we would stop western-based companies from providing the most serious infiltrating surveillance technologies to repressive regimes. it would also mean that we would prioritise expression and access to information, including on the internet. so there is room for cooperation, and i will bring it up during the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue in florida next month.
i would like to draw your attention, commissioner, to a report which you have also been working on yourself, namely the report on raw materials. i have not heard from you yet, and everyone knows that at the moment commodity prices are very high and there is a great shortage. we really need to do something about that. are you going to discuss this subject? because, in addition to many other crises, economic crisis, climate crisis, there is of course also the scarcity crisis, which we can solve in different ways. i also have a question about energy efficiency, the energy saving agenda. it's very, very important for climate change that we all around the world look not just at renewable energy, but also at energy efficiency, in our own countries, but also in the developing countries. is that on the agenda for us as well as the funds to support it in the developing countries?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, representatives of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group has enshrined and supported net neutrality as one of the main principles in the 2009 telecoms package. we want to use it to spur innovation, to expand the number of internet services. it's a miracle that even in this time of crisis, we can do that. the number of jobs is increasing rapidly, and this is a real growth sector, perhaps the largest in europe. broadband opens up a whole new world, a world of functions for citizens, for businesses and for governments. function and function go together here very strongly. the commission is now considering the possibility of implementing this directive in the member states. there are network operators who actually block new providers, presenting unnecessarily high bills. this was also the case in the netherlands. herbert reul has already given other examples. that's how skype and whatsapp were blocked. the netherlands is therefore considering a supplementary bill. there is nothing wrong with that in itself, but it cannot be that all countries will set up their own regulations, which will eventually lead to the surrender of the one internet space in europe. the added value of the one digital space, an open internet, is beyond question for us. finally, both committees are now sending a signal to the member states to be clear about transposition. secondly, for us, for the epp, new regulation need not be the answer, provided that we do give targeted implementation. in principle, we support net neutrality, we have high expectations of functions, of innovation and of jobs. that's what we're about.
mr president, the internet was created with no specific use in mind other than the efficient transfer of information. over the last 20 years the internet and technology have developed at an extremely rapid pace, giving rise to huge economic and social benefits. the key driver of this unprecedented innovation has been that all information flows and services are treated more or less equally, conforming with the principle of net neutrality. recently, a major telecoms provider in the netherlands bragged to shareholders about its throttling of the voice over ip and messaging services that directly compete with its core business of selling text messages and calling minutes. within hours it became known that all major providers in the netherlands did the same. the dutch parliament was quick to react and legally ensured net neutrality. it is not the job of governments to protect certain business models, and the dutch minister said that the company had clearly overplayed its hand. consumers pay too much, and transparency clearly has not worked in practice. i do not imagine that dutch telecom providers are the only ones guilty of these practices, and we need to ensure that there is an eu-wide level playing field. the research by berec will show what is happening, and perhaps the dutch example can serve as an eu-wide example. in any case, the wait-and-see approach of the commission with regard to net neutrality is hurting consumers, innovation, competition and society as a whole. transparency from providers and the ability for consumers to switch easily between providers are not enough on their own, and deep-packet traffic inspection methods are threatening fundamental rights.
president, commissioner, are your colleagues mr de gucht and mr kroes saying that no measures are to be expected for the time being? but that is what the european parliament wants. the netherlands had to adopt a kind of emergency law in june 2011, which legally mandates net neutrality, as the first country in the european union, which was a direct consequence of the fact that our largest telecom operator kpn wanted to make customers pay for competing online services such as skype or whatsapp, and that while the first telecom package of 2009 had already established that it must be net neutral throughout europe. it is obviously a bit crazy to say that 'neutral' really means neutral, and that it is not for the company to interpret neutrality, but for us, the legislator, and that we must guarantee it, and that it cannot be that, because of changing consumer habits, services are blocked or taxed. i really want to argue for the avoidance of 27 different interpretations of neutrality. we must act now, we do not want to have some kind of emergency laws, because a free and neutral internet is the economic, communication backbone of our society and must be transparent, qualitative and neutral.
what can the european institutions do for the roma in eu member states? i have received clear and specific requests from bulgaria yesterday from experts directly concerned, which i wholeheartedly share and which you too share. one: support roma projects of ngos and churches in particular, as they are less prejudiced and are committed to roma successes. two , you 're not . help to provide quality education in safe, secure schools within roma communities. note that in some bulgarian villages only 80 out of 2000 children can go to school in the city by bus. three , please . the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. involve their parents and education in both roma and bulgarian cultural practices. fourth . urges the bulgarian authorities to recognise and actively support the role of roma churches as bridge builders between roma and bulgarians, as refreshing, encouraging openings in roma ghettos.
the european parliament has repeatedly called for an effective and joint european policy to promote the integration of roma into the eu, because the practice in some member states leaves much to be desired. in april the european commission opted for european guidelines, for national strategies. in december, the member states will come up with a plan, if it is good. i ask the commission: how far are these plans and are you confident that they will succeed, and how will you ensure this? because all too often we hear alarming reports, for example of attacks on roma in bulgaria at a bus stop with boxing bracelets and slogans such as 'dirty gypsies'. in some member states, far-right political parties and politicians have intensified anti-roma rhetoric and actions. discrimination and violent attacks against roma are still too common. forced evictions also remain a major problem. it is sad that nowhere in the eu is the situation of europe's largest minority in a rosy light. the need for strategies was very much needed. but objectives and intentions are not enough. some member states, for example, do not want a target group policy, as the netherlands does. how does the commission, with 27 different strategies, guarantee that good and effective solutions to the roma problem will now be found? how does the commissioner intend to coordinate this? roma are eu citizens with rights like any other.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i can fully agree with the previous two speakers with whom we have worked on this joint motion for a resolution. the convention on cluster munitions entered into force in 2010 and most member states were included. it is important to ban the use of cluster munitions because they cause excessive and indiscriminate damage to civilians. from a humanitarian point of view, cluster munitions are a disaster. regrettably some member states believe that cluster munitions are important for their security and their economy. i will not dispute the importance of security, but there are more sophisticated and less damaging ways to ensure it. apart from use, there is trade. most recently, we heard reports of the use of cluster munitions in libya and apparently some member states were involved in providing them. there will shortly be a discussion on protocol vi during the review conference of certain conventional weapons. this protocol is not compatible with commitments made by member states. on the contrary, instead of undermining the convention on cluster munitions, we want more member states to subscribe. they would join member states who will not use, develop, produce, stockpile or transfer cluster munitions or engage in any of these prohibited activities. the eu should press member states and candidate member states, and be a force for a global ban on cluster munitions. if we want to be a credible actor in pushing for this important goal, we must lead by example with the inclusion of all member states.
mr president, shipping is a vital part of european transport and the european economy. a lot of jobs and innovation have come from the maritime cluster. and rightly so, europe is now investing in strengthening this sector. i always consider that a win-win situation. the commission has now allocated 40 million to the integrated maritime policy incentive fund. i would like to see, mr president, that part of that money also be spent on training young people who are interested in seafaring, so that they too become aware of the opportunities of seafaring and the relationship between seafaring and ecology. i hope that's possible. i would also like to see green shipping technology supported by this fund. in any case, no money to consultants or all sorts of boards or all sorts of people who are going to discuss strategies. never much comes of it. let's not do that. finally, i would like to thank my colleague, mr georgios koumoutsakos, very much. we worked well together and from a complex subject you managed to put together a good report. thank you very much.
in writing. − i support the functioning of the icc in the fight against impunity and the prosecution of the worst crimes against humanity. i also agree with the majority of conclusions laid down in the kreissl-dörfler report. however, i strongly disagree with the wording of §12. the competence for criminal law lies with the member states and not the eu and i strongly oppose any transfer of competences in criminal law matters. therefore i have abstained on the vote on the kreissl-dörfler report.
in writing. − i support the functioning of the icc in the fight against impunity and the prosecution of the worst crimes against humanity. i also agree with the majority of conclusions laid down in the kreissl-dörfler report. however i strongly disagree with the wording of paragraph 12. the competence for criminal law lies with the member states and not with the eu, and i strongly oppose any transfer of competences in criminal law matters. i therefore abstained on the vote on the kreissl-dörfler report.
in writing. − i support the main context of the report on combating illegal fishing at the global level and i voted in favour even though i strongly disagree with the wording of § 12 about the creation of a european coastguard in order to boost common monitoring and inspection capacity and to effectively combat current or future dangers at sea such as terrorism and piracy.
- a writer. - mr president, at this moment the life of the iranian cleric yousef nadarkhani is in the hands of ayatollah khamenei, the supreme leader of the islamic republic. nadarkhani has been sentenced to death for apostasy, apostasy from islam. a court ruling that directly violates the iranian constitution, the country's criminal code and also international treaty obligations that tehran has entered into. a vindictive statement from khamenei would be reasonably obvious. but it has been so long that those around convicted cleric nadarkhani fear a dramatic outcome to his criminal case in the otherwise quiet christmas days of 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals. raise your voice! advocate acquittal to the iranian authorities! an iranian journalist called me late last night. i can still hear her voice . "why is europe so silent when nadarkhani's life is at stake?" it is up to us, the european institutions, to give a convincing, humane answer to this pressing question. of course, this also applies to all the violations of basic civil rights in iran that are being discussed this afternoon.
author. − mr president, where to start? the nuclear dossier dominates our political agendas and campaign rhetoric, but let us never forget the ongoing human rights violations in iran. these are always important, but especially with regard to the upcoming elections in spring of next year. with opposition candidates in de facto imprisonment, the ongoing crackdown on citizens, women’s rights, free speech, media online and offline, torture and rape in prisons and the execution rate higher than it has ever been – higher than in china – including juveniles, the situation is very, very dire. in light of all these atrocities, we may wonder what we can do to help the brave iranians. the future of iran lies in the hands of the iranian people and i am confident that they will prevail, but even with eu and un sanctions in place, eu-based ict companies continue to provide spyware, surveillance, monitoring, tracking and tracing technologies and know-how to those in power in iran. we must end the facilitation of censorship, the hampering of press freedom and access to information, and the crackdown on people facilitated by eu-based companies. dual use regulations are not enough: we need eu-wide standards, licensing before trade and, most importantly, mechanisms to forge transparency and accountability to ensure that eu-based ict companies do not undermine the eu’s strategic interests and, most importantly, the human rights of iranian people.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in iran, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. no one is safe. women are stoned, young people are hanged. of all iranians, i think converted christians are the most vulnerable. this year ahmadinejad has started a campaign against christians under the slogan: we must stop the development of christianity in iran. unfortunately, it wasn't a loose threat. pastor yousef nadarkhani has been in prison for two years and has been sentenced to death for becoming a christian. more than 200 christians have been arrested. i call on the high representative and commissioner damanaki: it's time for tough sanctions on iran. let the eu also make an effort to get russia and china to join, because that is where the problem lies. they refuse to cooperate. but now it's time to act. the time for talking is over.
author. − mr president, egyptians – old, young, men, and women – have spoken out clearly. they want to determine their own future: opportunities, no corruption. they demand justice and human rights to be respected. we support their calls for freedom and we are humble about the decisions that some of the european member state governments have made in the past, but we are equally ambitious and committed to establishing a real partnership with egypt in the future. but which egypt? i truly hope we can speak about a new egypt, but i worry about the way in which the supreme council of the armed forces is showing the exact same characteristics as under mubarak. more than 12 000 civilians have been tried before military courts since the revolution. this injustice must end. i stand with those egyptians who believe military courts do not have legitimacy. this is also true according to article 10 of the universal declaration of human rights. human rights defender and blogger alaa abdel fatah is one of the latest victims. tomorrow he will celebrate his birthday in a cramped prison cell. from prison, under awful circumstances, he awaits the charges brought against him, trumped-up charges. he also awaits the birth of his son. his wife is due to deliver a baby boy any day. they had faith in the birth of a new egypt, an egypt that would provide opportunities for the new generation. his son will be named khaled after khaled saeed who was murdered by the police. alaa abdel fatah is a symbol and there are many other symbols that represent the thousands who are imprisoned including maikel nabil, another blogger who has been mentioned. the injustice goes on and we support the egyptians’ peaceful call for a truly new egypt. that must start with the end of military trials for civilians and the release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. i would like to ask whether we can get this resolution translated into arabic as a matter of exception. i would also like to point out that the spelling of mr abdel fatah’s name is incorrect and should be corrected.
i thank you, mr president, for allowing me to respond to your remarks. you were just talking about egypt. i myself attended the elections in cairo, together with representatives of the carter institute, which monitored the elections. i've seen some irregularities there myself. i shall write you a letter to that effect, reporting the irregularities to you so that the letter can either be dealt with by the appropriate committee or be forwarded by you to the egyptian authorities. but i'll let you know in writing.
president. - i have spoken to many of mr schulz's voters in germany, and they do not want to pay for the debts of greece, spain and italy. so, mr schulz, are you not committing a huge electoral fraud here by saying that the german voter, your voter, must pay for the greek debt, and that the greek taxpayer is actually the owner of that greek debt?
president. - the eurozone is under pressure. let's be clear about that. drastic intervention by the european central bank and the introduction of euro bonds can only temporarily relieve the pressure on the financial system. europe must use the time to address the underlying problems. first, a controlled reduction in unsustainably high levels of debt in the public sector, the private sector and, in particular, the banks. secondly, to reduce the destabilising effects of large differences in economic competitiveness between member states on the financial system. the question that now bursts forth with ever greater force: can the measures agreed or being discussed in the run-up to the european council on 8 and 9 december provide a satisfactory answer? can stricter budgetary discipline and assistance from the international monetary fund suffice? i hope so, in view of short-term financial stability, but i am seriously concerned about the longer term. the question is whether a move towards a eurozone with stricter conditions, which it is feared that some member states cannot meet at present, can be avoided. it takes time to work out the necessary solutions. perhaps we should jointly reorganise the euro area temporarily and thoroughly in order to achieve greater stability in the financial system and the economy in the medium term. this offers a perspective for all the countries of the euro zone and the european union.
the ecb has now really started printing money, and in doing so the european central bank is breaking its own treaty rules. this parliament always says it is committed to respecting the treaties. so i would like to ask mr rehn what he thinks of the ecb's buying-up operations. do you not agree that the ecb should immediately stop buying italian government bonds? i ask mr rehn to do everything possible - even to go to court if necessary - if the ecb continues with this disastrous policy. the other thing is that enlargement with croatia is of course absurd at the moment. the european union is bankrupt. the european union is grappling with a huge corruption problem, and croatia currently scores 4.1 on the transparency international index. at this point, expanding with such a corrupt country is of course absurd. finally, mr verhofstadt, you should shut your big mouth. you are not speaking for the dutch vvd liberals at all, and your own party, the open vld, has betrayed flanders by allowing this terrible socialist government, di rupo. so i ask mr verhofstadt to keep his big mouth shut again.
i would like to ask mrs le grip, mr president, whether her colleague, mr alain juppé, has gone mad or whether it is true that this is a party position. he has said today that without the euro violent armed conflicts will break out in europe. is that your view too, mrs le grip, or has mr juppé gone a little mad?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - president, the eu-20-20 goals and the european semester could in theory help us to make a great step forward. the member states have set themselves specific objectives: 75% participation of men and women, lifting 20 million people out of poverty, fighting climate change, investing in innovation, and they also have their measures to achieve these targets monitored by the commission. totally great, so far. but in practice, it doesn't work, or not well enough. member states have far too low ambitions to achieve the 2020 targets together. some reform programmes are really of ridiculously low quality and social objectives are systematically forgotten. and austerity sounds great, even if it means that 20 million more people are falling into poverty. the commission's comments are, to say the least, incoherent. why isn't it working now? actually, there's only one simple answer: the european semester has no audience. at eu level, the european parliament has too little say, at national level, parliaments, social partners and ngos are not involved. nobody knows about it, nobody has any control over it, and so nobody cares. no minister is going to be called on by the public or the press if his work is severely understated. the chances of a government being blamed for failing in the european semester at the next election are nil. if we're going to make this project work, we need to get the audience. national parliaments, social partners and ngos who hold their governments to their own promises. a european parliament that can speak with all its might. the excellent report by mrs berès lists all kinds of concrete measures to ensure this. we are very happy to vote in favour of this report and look forward to its adoption as soon as possible. we are already starting to do so in the committee on employment, and i have the honour of being rapporteur for a report by the european parliament on the priorities for the coming year. i would ask the commission and the council to listen very carefully to this report.
mr president, it is worth noting that a chinese investor said two weeks ago that the problems in the european countries are the result of a society which is running out of steam, which is living off socialist gains. these lead to laziness rather than to hard work. the stimulation system is completely derailed. the problem with the european budget for 2012 is indeed a socialist demand by the european parliament and the commission to spend more and more, when it cannot. the social democracy is overprotecting its own interests and this has led to totally irresponsible behaviour. we'll see that in the 2012 budget. this newly increased budget only creates more jobs for the established euro-clique, which has dealt the cards fairly amongst themselves. it's not good for our citizens. there is some added value, on the contrary. the 2012 budget does not solve problems, but exacerbates them. the only solution that europe really needs is to cut back on useless things and to focus on those things that directly contribute to the recovery of employment, which will enable our citizens to earn their honest bread to provide for the needs of their families. that is all the eu is not doing with the 2012 budget. the eu is failing and working for the downfall of europe. that is not what the pvv wants, of course, and that is why it is voting against this 2012 budget on behalf of the dutch people.
in writing. − the council has proven to be very rigid in its position during the conciliation, effectively prohibiting parliament from being treated equally as a co-legislator in the sense that there have to be delegated acts (article 290 tfeu) for strategic political decisions on financing and programming of instruments for development cooperation. however, a vote against would mean that the acp banana-supplying countries would be denied much needed financial assistance, something for which i cannot take responsibility. therefore i abstained on the final vote.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask my esteemed colleague: who would profit more? all the member states of the eu, or spain only?
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, åsa westlund, whose plane is late. the european parliament’s legal service has concluded that the fisheries agreement is against international law, since the un has never recognised morocco’s claim over the western sahara. nothing shows that the wishes of the people of the western sahara are being respected or that this agreement benefits them. the community should therefore envisage either the suspension of the agreement or should apply the agreement in such a way that eu-flagged vessels are excluded from the exploitation of the waters off western sahara. there are additional arguments for the european parliament not to give its consent: the current protocol has had the lowest cost-benefit ratio of any eu bilateral agreement, and it has fostered the fishing of many depleted stocks and failed to contribute to the development of the fisheries sector in morocco. given these facts, the eu… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am deeply sorry for the interpreters, whom i like so much.
mr president, today the iter project is being discussed for the umpteenth time. let it be clear that the pvv is not against nuclear research. furthermore, the iter project is useful for international business and dutch companies also benefit from it; a good cause. a project like iter can hardly be financed by a single member state, and that is why we are in principle in favour of global financing for this project. what concerns us is the continuing cost overrun at iter. for the next two years, an extra 1.3 billion. this required a revision of the current multiannual financial framework - a so-called revision. the pvv considers this to be a particularly remarkable development, since the adoption of this revision requires unanimity in the council. the detailed conditions for additional funding for the iter project have already been discussed at length, but the question of whether this substantial additional funding will be accepted by the netherlands is still open to us. as far as the pvv is concerned, iter is quite worthwhile. but such a gigantic sum, without any prospect of hard agreements keeping iter funding within limits, makes us vote against the böge report and against the increasing costs of iter. and, mr böge, the council has the sovereign last word on this. thank god!
mr president, the peak of the peaks became the flop of the flops. the summit has only led to a split within europe. england is now turning its back on europe, and that is a major step that england has taken. the european union has also agreed to sanctions for countries that do not pay their debts. of course, they're still not going to do that, because in a recession, you can't pay off debt. what i am warning against is that this european union is becoming an unemployment union. 2012, colleagues, will be the year of truth, because it's over with this debt union. economic growth in the netherlands, one of the strongest economies in europe, has now officially entered a recession. unemployment in the netherlands is rising rapidly. the economic contraction next year will be about half a per cent, and - i repeat - the netherlands is one of the countries that is paying these debts, or at least this parliament wants to do so again and again. that ends once, ladies and gentlemen. this parliament can say that the netherlands should admit more unemployed poles into its labour market, and that the bulgarians and romanians should also flood the netherlands, but the dutch people are no longer putting up with this. if unemployed greeks come to the netherlands, it will only increase unemployment in the netherlands. and the greeks do not want to go to the netherlands either, because they want to work in their own country and we should take care of that.
it is a good thing, mr president, that the euro countries came together last friday in unison to support our common euro, even though the road to a new treaty is still full of uncertainties. we must have certainty quickly, because it is this continuing unrest that is damaging our economic growth and thus the interests of our citizens. but we are also making great progress, because today the six-pack comes into force, and i, as rapporteur, welcome that. i am proud of the role we have played as a european parliament. a strong role for the european commission, a democratic role for the european parliament and a strong responsibility for member states and national parliaments. i was also pleased with the interim report by president van rompuy, because it builds on the six-pack. but is that also the direction taken at the summit? it is clear when it comes to budgetary discipline, but it is not clear when it comes to the much needed further economic cooperation. the letter from merkel and sarkozy, which was published at the same time as your report, calls for increased institutional cooperation with a central role for heads of government and new so-called preparatory structures. government leaders judging each other. that did not work in 2003, nor in 2005, when it came to budgetary discipline. it has not worked either in the case of a competition pact of one and a half years, because that has hardly produced any results. i am therefore curious, mr van rompuy, and your positivism, mr barroso, is commendable, but it will be decisive which way we go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and that will only work if we, but also our government leaders, give our common institutions a heavy role. so, mr van rompuy, mr barroso, commissioner rehn, we expect you to play a leading role and you can count on our support. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mrs tzavela, we can only get out of this crisis if we all take responsibility for painful measures to ensure a healthy budget, but also for reforms to make our economy healthy, to create jobs - not just for us, but for future generations. i am very aware that this is painful in greece at the moment, but it is necessary. but it will apply to all our countries and also to the netherlands, if that is necessary to get our books in order. as far as private involvement is concerned, i think it is a very wise decision by the council to limit private involvement, because the turmoil that has been caused has a greater negative impact than what i would like to see, namely that the private sector is contributing to these debt problems.
the agreement reached is quite reasonable in itself. sanctions against budgetary offenders will be as automatic as possible. but there's a lot of collateral damage. the netherlands will lose its veto on payments from the new european stability mechanism. a motion by my colleagues in the hague on this subject was supported by only a few groups. it's completely incomprehensible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. the netherlands is also losing an important ally as the united kingdom is breaking away. in a few moments, prime minister rutte will be nothing more than a lackey at the power wedding of mrs merkel and mr sarkozy. the position of mr sarkozy has unfortunately been strengthened, because he has lost the british and their atlantic orientation. the fear is that the necessary adjustments and cuts will not be made and that the ecb will be buying up more junk bonds. and i suggest you give that fellow over there a glass of water, because he's gonna be in it for a while.
in writing. last friday, the european council decided to enshrine budgetary discipline in a new treaty. a step in the right direction. this should ensure that the rules agreed upon when the euro was introduced are maintained. the emergency fund must be used effectively. the question is whether the 500 billion euro of the temporary and permanent emergency fund, supplemented by 200 billion via the imf, will prove sufficient. the european banking authority has identified a capital requirement of 114.7 billion on the basis of european banks' exposure to government bonds. however, the overall capital needs are higher because banks also have loans in the private sector which are not all of good quality. as a real solution to the euro crisis, i advocate: the weak euro countries must gain economic competitiveness through reform and austerity. finally, unsustainably high levels of debt in the private sector, especially banks, must be controlled and reduced.
mrs. ashton, congratulations on your new human rights strategy. i hope that this strategy will also help to make various aspects of policy more coherent. i am thinking in particular of the relationship between trade and human rights. it is also time to put words into action and i would like to call attention once again to freedom of religion. i have been in egypt and turkey and eastern turkey in recent weeks, two countries where the european union rightly wants to be very present, but where things are not going in the right direction. in egypt i spoke to copts, whose lives are becoming increasingly difficult, especially now that extremist parties are threatening to come to power. in turkey i saw that the model that erdogan so much likes to promote for the arab countries is very harmful to christians. aramean christians are slowly being demolished and centuries-old monasteries like mor gabriel are in danger of losing all their land holdings. so if there's one issue that needs to be the spearhead of policy, it's religious freedom.
president, high representative ashton, i would like to draw your attention to the still pending death sentence against the iranian cleric youssef nadarkhani. i have some new reports on that. it is feared that a quick solution, a dramatic solution, might be found, particularly in the quiet time around christmas. a second question, if i may. what about the new criminal code in the islamic republic of iran, which is so difficult to relate to what we call universal human rights?
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities. despite this, tens of thousands of citizens took to the streets across the country to protest against blatant voter fraud in the parliamentary elections on december 4. in the face of onischenko's transparent political maneuver, the demonstrators demanded health measures against a broken social and political order, and rightly so. i very much hope, mrs ashton, that the eu will join this necessary russian self-criticism in its forthcoming meeting with the russian authorities, especially in the run-up to the presidential elections in march 2012. i would like to raise, mrs ashton, in consultation with moscow, not only a domestic issue but also a very important issue of russian foreign policy. what do you think are the chances that russia will take a more positive, i.e. cooperative, stance in the nuclear dispute with iran in the face of western attempts to resolve this incendiary conflict peacefully? because i can assume that the iranian nuclear dossier is high on your list of priorities for negotiations with the now-troubled putin/medvedev leadership duo.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: it's on the agenda. it is really about the question of where the european union and russia can strengthen each other. i would like to say that in that respect this summit could be a positive development. russia is joining the wto, which means that there is also a possibility of reviving the partnership agreement. it's badly needed. energy, visa facilitation, investment in industry, but also reciprocal conditions and non-discrimination. mr president, there are values in partnership, real values. you said that, mrs. ashton. we understand that to mean democracy and civil rights. however, russia has shown that it has not respected the elections to the duma. in some regions more than 100% of the votes were cast for a particular party. this means that the present calculation is worse than that of the former communist period. respect for mathematics, one said, is lacking in this government. it is of the utmost importance, however, that this same drama and this same disregard for the value of free elections be avoided in the next presidential elections and that this be clearly agreed with president medvedev. so there is a heartfelt word to be said about that. a country which says it is so attached to peace and dignity will also have to ensure that one of those fundamental values, democracy, the right to vote and to be elected, is respected again.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as we speak the syrian city of homs is being surrounded by no less than 400 tanks. we have seen this movie before. however, in hama in 1982 there were no cameras acting as eye witness to the world. now we know what is happening. al-assad has killed and tortured to death 5 000 citizens including children; tens of thousands are imprisoned and, instead of al-assad meeting the ultimatums of the international community, specifically the arab league, he has given his own citizens an ultimatum to give up members of the opposition, which remains largely peaceful. al-assad orders to shoot and kill and has confirmed in his interview last week that he, as head of government and commander-in-chief, takes no responsibility at all for what is happening in his country. he has lost his dignity and his legitimacy and i believe that the eu must do everything to prevent the massacre from going on any further. the impunity must end. we have to act more credibly and forcefully by imposing additional targeted sanctions, specifically on the families supporting this murderous regime and keeping it in power, and by implementing the council conclusions on syria of 1 december in which the eu decided to stop the export of technologies used to monitor the internet, to breach and track people’s communications and information flows and to take them out of their homes based on the signals from their cell phone. the information war that is going on is real. and as was the case with oil sanctions, the statement in relation to digital arms trade – which we have fought to stop for years – has been made. however, we still have to await its implementation, and this is hurting our credibility. speaking of credibility, i think it is disturbing that cyprus blocked turkey’s participation in the foreign affairs council on syria. what will you do to ensure that this does not happen again and that we can work with this vital partner, turkey, on establishing humanitarian corridors and in collaborating through turkey with nato as well? the syrians need the eu and turkey to cooperate and i urge you to work on this credibility issue, which is very important. let us do justice to the sakharov prize winners whom we will honour tomorrow, razan zaitouneh and ali farzat from syria on behalf of the arab spring.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in syria, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in syria. and i have to say: they are very much colored by the daily telephone contact i have with a friend, an arabist, who is doing his doctorate in damascus. i'll just list them, my questions to you, mrs ashton. do you have direct contact with the syrian national council, or is that reserved for a few prominent member states? how do you feel about the fact that this syrian national council is not only dominated by the muslim brotherhood, but also has different accents in its presentation abroad: anti-iran, anti-hezbollah and in the country: what are you, anti-israel? a third question: the only secular state in the middle east will disappear with the eventual fall of the assad regime. that's emphasized by every analyst i speak to from damascus - foreigners, not syrians. what do you think will be the consequences for the syrian religious minorities, who make up some 25 to 40% of the population? the views of the syrian opposition inside and outside syria are different. dialogue with the assad regime versus violent overthrow of this regime, that is to say civil war. what do you think of the proposal by the syrian dissident i spoke to today to link european support for the syrian national council with the obligation to negotiate with the assad regime in order to prevent the country from slipping?
president, commissioner, the neighbourhood policy has our warm support, especially with the new course that has now been chosen. i'm just going to take one little part out. that is the enpi, the instrument for cooperation across external borders. these are small-scale projects, sometimes from hospitals together, sometimes from universities together, tangible projects from person to person. in 2007-2013 we transferred money from the regional fund to this end . we have looked at how that works now in a parliamentary study, a hearing. we have seen that this has been very difficult. we also saw that the emphasis was particularly on the capital cities and that people in the region, partners, cities, had a very difficult time getting ahead. the report makes clear in paragraph 8 that in future more of these erdf methods, more interreg cooperation methods, should be used. i think that's a very important signal. we just have to take that to improve efficiency and also flexibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the polish presidency has now also described this in its conclusions. so support this approach, but the enpi must work better and more cross-border. the focus should not be on policies in the capitals, but on projects close to the people. commissioner, how are we gonna do this? i am a member of the regi committee and i would like to work with you on this in the next regulation. we had an enhanced procedure now. i think we're going to get mr. brok and his people back.
mr president, how far removed this house is from reality and reality. i think this legislation, this so-called compromise on fruit juice, is an example of that. i'll tell you what the reality is. the average european runs into the supermarket five minutes before closing time with two tired children after work and is confronted with a whole wall of fruit juices and fruit drinks, including fruit nectar, as it is called. i asked a number of people in the supermarket what they thought of when they heard the word "nectar". and they think about bees and natural products. they think of everything and more. but the last thing they think about is that sugar has been added to this so-called natural product. that's the case. the fine print is not going to be read by the average european, because he has two crying children in his cart. he doesn't have time for that. i therefore considered the commission's original proposal to be more than justified. the proposal proposed that the packaging should clearly and explicitly state that sugar has been added to these fruit drinks, these nectars. but there is nothing left of that proposal. we no longer explicitly label added sugars, whereas we note that fruit juices, which do not contain sugar, do not contain sugar. that's the world upside down. we label what's not in it, and what's in it we leave out. i am surprised that the commission is defending this now, because when its proposal came out there was a nice press release saying that we are going to inform the consumer better about added sugar. now, that's far from the case. first a lot of bombshell, and now they're agreeing to this half-baked compromise. i am also surprised that colleagues from the left-wing groups, who are always so keen to inform consumers, are actually causing confusion amongst consumers. unfortunately, i will be in the minority, but i will vote against this compromise tomorrow.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank mr tusk for his action in the euro crisis. these are very difficult times in the context of the euro crisis and i think that mr tusk, particularly in his speech on 6 july, has shown the importance of europe in this house with a very clear personal historical perspective and has made it clear that it is crucial for everyone to preserve europe. i also think that mr tusk and his government have played a very good role in the euro crisis during the polish presidency, in particular the speech by the foreign minister, who at one point called on germany to take the lead in solving this euro crisis. we are not afraid of a germany which is not taking enough leadership, we want a germany which is taking more leadership. that was a very nice gesture, also from poland, to show how we in europe should solve the euro crisis. we are very grateful to mr tusk and his cabinet for this. but there is another crisis: the climate crisis. this is a matter of considerable criticism of the polish presidency. it started with a kind of false start at the environment council in june with a veto by the polish minister of the environment to block any conclusion on the future of climate policy. but in durban too, the polish presidency has unfortunately not played a good role. it was more concerned with maintaining the hot air, the excess emissions, than thinking about how we can take action internationally. it is mainly thanks to the commission, to mrs hedegaard, that europe has played a good role in durban. the polish presidency has really failed in that area. the greens wonder why the poles do not see the need to solve the climate crisis together with the euro crisis. we will not get out of the euro crisis by cutting back on spending alone. we must invest in the future and in a green economy if we are to get out of the euro crisis. an economy that's going to get back on track and solve the climate crisis. that should have been the policy we had hoped to see from the polish presidency. you, as the polish presidency, called on germany to take the lead in the euro crisis. unfortunately, you failed to lead europeans in the climate crisis. so congratulations on the euro crisis story, but unfortunately we have to give you an understatement on climate policy.
in writing. − i would like to underline forcefully that, by voting in favour of this report, i by no means accept the reference to the definition of ‘terrorism’ as it is formulated in framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism. i wish to state clearly that i reject such a broad definition, which could include virtually every act that has some element of organisation or planning, and which raises the legitimate question of whether this instrument has built-in ‘function creep’ in order not only to combat terrorism but also to extend the definition in such a manner as to cover most public order situations and more common criminal acts, as they apply under national law.
in writing. − i would like to underline forcefully that by voting in favour of this report, i by no means accept the reference to the definition of ‘terrorism’ as it is formulated in the framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism. i wish to state clearly that i reject such a broad definition which could virtually include every act that has some element of organisation or planning and that legitimately raises the question whether this instruments has a built-in ‘function creep’ in order not only to combat terrorism but to extend the definition in such a manner as to cover most public order situations and more common criminal acts as they apply under national law. like other legislation of this nature (in the us for instance), we must be very careful to not leave any room for draconian measures to enter from the backdoor to control political dissent, demonstrations, protests, and must be very vigilant that it will not be used to curb the freedom of expression.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). a democracy requires openness. democracy requires that people can check whether the decision that has been made for them is the right decision. we no longer have direct democracy, we have people's representatives and we have ministers in, for example, the european council. but it is still of the utmost importance that what we do is controlled by another. and it seems that the christian democrats in this house want a kind of old-fashioned form of government, namely, 'go to sleep, we'll take care of you and everything will be fine.' but it is precisely in a europe of 27 member states, or perhaps 26 member states plus one, that it is very crucial that we can weigh up which country or which group represents which interest. mistakes are easier to make behind a closed door than behind an open one. so we will have to give europeans access to decision-making. a closed door also leads to more euroscepticism. how can you be sure that your minister did the right thing for you? he can tell you that at home, but you can't check. and that is what this european parliament should be about. i think it is naive for the commission and the council, and also the christian democrats, to say: 'no, that is just a nuisance and we do not want to bother the europeans with that, it will only take time and we would need the lobbyists at the table'. the lobbyists are at the table, and i would like to know at which table which lobbyists are at which table and who is being influenced by them. that is why the european parliament is asking for transparency and the europeans are asking for it.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. for us meps, brussels may be the centre of our work, but for the average citizen, brussels is very far away. moreover, recent research shows that citizens across europe are losing confidence in european policies. more than half of the citizens see an increase in poverty in europe as a result of brussels. the traditional response is to explain it to the citizen again. the information budget of the european institutions is enormous, but all this broadcasting is not working. the citizen of today is no longer a passive receiver. he wants to be heard, and he wants his voice to matter. he'll decide what he wants to know. the rapporteur has chosen in his proposal a strong approach to the content, which gives the citizen more - and not less - right to information, as the commission would like. i am grateful to him for having accepted my suggestions that documents relating to negotiations in the council should not be made inaccessible to the public in advance. it is precisely at the negotiating stage that the citizen wishes to make his voice heard. and we can't take that away from him. it will be difficult negotiations with the commission and the council, for which the rapporteur needs the support of the whole parliament. i hope that the christian democrats in particular will come to their senses in time and vote for the citizen, instead of indulging in backroom politics.
mr president, we are talking about openness today. the public access to documents, to processes, to decision-making. publicity is necessary for a democracy. publicity is the fundamental difference between a democratic society and dictatorships. so you might ask how is it that the desired openness was not part of the lisbon treaty from the beginning? could it be that the reason is that the european project is an elitist toy that does not tolerate publicity? would that immediately fail if the citizens knew what was going on here? in any case, the dutch citizens pay a whopping 5.7 billion euros a year for their membership of the union. they at least want to know what their money is being spent on. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). the truth about huge financial deficits, about the growing lack of democracy. the citizens are turning their backs on a union which threatens their prosperity and does not want to hear their voices. the united kingdom has now rightly chosen the national interest, the interest of its citizens. the interest of the citizens should be the starting point for every head of government and for the european union as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and we can be open about that now, mr president.
madam president, the commission, the council and the epp talk a lot about transparency, but they seem to be paying lip service only. i find quite shocking the contrast between the debate on transparency and the ceremony we had earlier when granting the sakharov prize. ms sommer just said in german – i wrote it down – that she is against„öffentlichen einfluss auf das verfahren“. in other words, we cannot have citizens actually influencing procedures. ms sommer, i think that is precisely the point: to give citizens the power to influence the procedure. secrecy is the legacy of the old europe that was shaped by diplomats. in the europe of today that is a political union, a union of the citizens, we need to give them the instruments to shape the european union themselves. finally, transparency may also be awkward for ourselves. we should not only be talking about the commission and the council: this house should lead by example and show a culture of transparency and accountability. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, first of all, ms sommer says that lobbyists should not have influence on the procedure, but what are lobbyists? a human rights organisation or an environment organisation – are they not lobbyists acting on behalf of the citizens? or lobbyists may be representing interests of patient organisations, for example. secondly, i still do not understand her point. we are arguing for more transparency in order to make the current lobbying, including industries, visible where now it is taking place behind closed doors. they are influencing policy-making today, which is not a bad thing, but it should be visible.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would like to know if mr pirker considers it normal parliamentary manners to equate colleagues who are going to support a report with criminals?
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr fleckenstein for his work and also for the pleasant cooperation and also thank emsa. i think emsa is one of the better european agencies. emsa can detect oil spills with satellite systems and emsa satellite data can also be used in the fight against piracy. so all points that are good for safety at sea. however, mr president, i think that europe is going to make a big deal of this revision of the emsa mandate. the proposals give emsa far more tasks and powers than are necessary. for example, look at the tasks that emsa is given to promote the internal market at sea or to deal with inland navigation. these are the kinds of things that i say should be left out of emsa. this is already being done in a good way by a number of national and international organisations. there is no need for emsa to duplicate or to switch. the same applies to the inspection of oil and gas platforms. i think it is unnecessary for emsa to do that. the monitoring of these platforms is already taking place in the european countries and i myself know that monitoring very well. i have worked closely with the inspection service and i know that the monitoring of the gas and oil platforms is generally well organized. the fleckenstein report also opens the door to a european coastguard. mr president, my group does not want that. firstly, not because that work is already being done in an excellent way by the national coastguards, but also - which many people forget - because the national coastguards are already working very well together. they are also effective, so that further step does not need to be taken as far as my group is concerned. in short, mr president, we must once again say that enough is enough. in this parliament we are always asking for more tasks and more powers. that's a step too far for us now! despite the good work of the rapporteur, we cannot support his report.
"blue card" question. what is it? let us be clear, mr kuhn, you said that it is easy to criticise emsa. it may be that this has not been communicated or translated correctly, but i have no criticism of emsa. on the contrary, i have expressed my appreciation for emsa in the second sentence of my contribution. the point is that my group and i feel that the mandate we are now reviewing is too broad and too far-reaching. so if i could have your attention, please. i am grateful to the commission for the work it has done on emsa, but we are now taking a step too far. that's what i mean.
mr president, it seems that brussels has not yet grasped the fact that europe is in a serious economic crisis. this report, a roadmap for an internal european transport area, seeks to increase spending on unprofitable european rail links. it is not that i am against the rail, mr president, but throughout the report the railway is given preferential treatment over road and air transport. the fact that the brussels bureaucrats are completely oblivious to the current economic reality is, when i read the report, unfortunately not surprising. it is full of references to the white paper and the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. but the most important question is not asked: what does this multi-billion investment actually bring to the european citizen? the prejudice of the brussels elite is going to cost the citizen billions, while the national railways are already being kept going by huge subsidies. despite these enormous amounts of state aid, the railway's share of total transport demand has only decreased in recent years. apparently, europeans prefer to travel by car or by air. of course, these losses must be paid for by someone. under the guise of climate objectives, the efficient aviation and road transport sectors can reap the benefits of these rail losses. president, while brussels bureaucrats are striving for a single internal transport area, rail is being favoured over road and air transport for the sake of climate objectives. let us first put an end to the preferential treatment of the railways, only then will tax money be directed to the places where it can contribute most rapidly to the prosperity of european countries. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
"blue card" is the answer. mr cramer, i know that we have very different views on this, but you cannot ignore the fact that the railways are being closed down with subsidies and that the road, the road infrastructure and the air transport sector are paying the price. you always talk about equal treatment in europe. the same should apply to the infrastructure sector.
- a writer. - mr president, the fact that there are prisons in europe where prisoners, suspects and convicts are exposed to the risk of disease and violence is a disgrace in itself. it is unheard of that some member states, like the commission, still speak of mutual trust in the rule of law; it is only a matter of time before one of the courts, luxembourg or strasbourg, prohibits a member state from expelling a resident on the basis of article 3 of the european convention on human rights, the article dealing with torture and inhuman treatment. the dutchman robert hörchner spent eight months in a polish prison because of a european arrest warrant. he came out skinny - not to say emaciated - and with scabies all over his body. he was acquitted, by the way. this parliament does not want this kind of thing! so this parliament is not only calling for better, cleaner, safer prisons, but certainly for a review of the principle of mutual trust without control. how is it that in times of debt crisis, member states which distrust each other in the field of finance ask for sanctions, for checks and balances, for controls, but when it comes to the expulsion of a resident from one country to another, mutual trust is considered good enough? this parliament is therefore calling not only for safe prisons but also for a maximum period of detention and for the possibility for a judge to refuse an expulsion order on the basis of the european arrest warrant and not to extradite a resident to another country where the detention facilities are such that article 3 is violated. because, mr president, trust is good, but control is better.
mr president, for better european cooperation in the area of justice it is crucial that the member states can trust in each other’s justice systems. a shortcoming in detention conditions is one reason for this lack of trust. even though detention conditions in some member states might be worse than others, none of the member states have a clear conscience when it comes to detention conditions. problems such as overcrowded prisons and ill-treatment of the detainees are to be observed throughout the eu. what is even more alarming are the cases of death and suicide in detention. in the resolution we asked the member states to prevent suicides in prison and to carry out in-depth and impartial investigations, systematically in cases where a prisoner dies in prison. six months after the death of i̇hsan gürz in police detention in the netherlands, there are still several versions of what happened leading up to his death. this makes it difficult for i̇hsan’s family to have closure. unfortunately there are similar cases throughout europe. therefore we are urging independent investigations to be conducted when someone dies in detention. the detention conditions are perhaps the responsibility of member states but their shortcomings damage the trust which is needed to achieve judicial cooperation in criminal matters at european level. the lack of trust is preventing member states from extraditing criminals. what does the commission intend to do to ensure transparency in every member state as to what happens in detention and how is the eu intending to ensure the fundamental rights of the detainees?
president. - mr president, five years ago bulgaria and romania became members of our union. the accession treaties stipulate that all other member states will open their labour markets to romanian and bulgarian workers either immediately or gradually. the final phase of transition is now under way, a phase in which only those countries which can prove a serious disturbance of their labour markets may take transitional measures. there is now also a comprehensive report - for which we are grateful to you - which shows that countries which have not introduced transitional measures have actually benefited from this, and that transitional measures have mainly negative effects. all the member states therefore have every reason to open their labour markets fully to bulgarian and romanian workers. unfortunately, a number of countries have announced that they are still willing to take restrictive measures, with the netherlands being the most enthusiastic about worst practice. if it is up to minister kamp of social affairs, no bulgarian and no romanian will be allowed to enter the netherlands next year. facts have nothing to do with this. not only is it absolutely ridiculous that in the netherlands, one of the richest countries in the eu with the lowest unemployment, it is claimed that there could be a disruption of the labour market, but there is also all kinds of research - also in the netherlands - that shows that the measures promote exploitation. transitional measures mean condemning thousands of eu citizens to exploitation, poor working conditions, false self-employment and underpayment. transitional measures also mean that thousands of employers cannot recruit the workers they think are best suited to work in their company. transitional measures are, in my view, a violation of the right of free movement and a violation of the accession treaties if a country cannot prove serious infringement. you, commissioner, are the guardian of the treaties. i expect you to carry them out not only in letter but in spirit. so as soon as you receive the notification from the netherlands, i expect you to put aside the investigation and the facts and say, mr. kamp, hurry up with your ridiculous story. if you do not, the accession treaties are not worth the paper they are printed on. the netherlands has always been there like a chicken to remind romania and bulgaria of all their obligations, and now they are running away with their own obligations under these treaties which they themselves have ratified. if you let the netherlands get away with this, you are basically saying that domestic political relations are more important than the free movement of workers. you are saying that the richer old member states can interpret the treaties as they see fit, even if it is to the detriment of their own employers and thousands of romanians and bulgarians.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. i will be discussing the future of the fund after 2014. we have all been eagerly awaiting the commission's proposals to improve the fund. there is a lot to be done to make it the real rapid intervention fund we had in mind, and something must also be done about the fact that it is mainly the richer member states that use it, not the poorer ones. what we didn't see coming at all were the farmers. i was really amazed to read the proposal. what strikes me most is that you want to make two totally different instruments out of it. a small social instrument for laid-off workers and a larger instrument of 2.5 billion for farmers. i think you have to choose: they're the same, or they're different. if they are the same, then farmers can be covered by the egf under the same rules. i'd like that. or they can be treated equally by bringing the crisis- and globalisation-hit companies under the same rules you now propose for farmers. if eu policies or a free trade agreement threaten to hit them, they can restructure their company before it goes bankrupt. the flemish textile industry and the spanish ceramic industry had benefited enormously from the free trade with asia, which had forced their products out of the market. but in that case you have a very different instrument, and it becomes an industrial instrument, and then you can add a few billion. i think the commission really wants something quite different with agriculture. so take that decision and come up with a suitable instrument which can be debated in the agricultural community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i appreciate the commission's attempt to simplify, to set clear objectives and to introduce what you call mainstreaming, but we do not need to reinvent the wheel. if something just works, it works, and you don't have to come back to it in a different way or call it something else. then it's all right. the intelligent energy for europe programme worked, as you say, it reached the citizen and it reached smes. indeed, as my colleagues have said, it takes so long to get as close as the european union, also on this subject. your colleague oettinger said the same thing yesterday. he said that the programme was already planned and that he would let us know later in the week under what terms. i just think we've been a little unnecessarily agitated. i would like to know in advance what these things are and what they mean. i would like to ask you, mr president, to give me a few words on the subject of the budget. is it expanding, and how will you measure its impact in the future? and, above all, will we have it again, for example, in the next multiannual framework programme and the next horizon programme? can't these kinds of programs just stay ordinary? i would also like to say that i think that the horizon 2020 programme continues to pay great attention to research. that's a good thing. it is precisely these programmes, which are very practical and benefit smes, that are far too few and need more attention.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to extend my thanks to the rapporteur, mr schwab, who i think is the real leader of the ‘c team’ – the competition team – this year. he has done an excellent job. as you know, liberals attach great importance to competition policies, not only as a means of protecting consumer interests – as was rightly pointed out – but also to foster innovative, dynamic and competitive european markets. we need to realise that we are not just competing with each other, but that europe should also be a strong economic actor in the global markets. we need strong competition policies and controls, in particular in times of economic crisis. mr almunia is absolutely right when he says that in these times state aid rules should not be relaxed, but they should actually be much tighter and much stricter than normal, because we have to keep in mind that state aid distorts competition. it is also a question of taxpayers’ money in the end. regarding state aid for banks, there is a very good proposal in paragraph 14 of the report for a european system – european solutions – for failing banks. if we had had a european solution then maybe the whole problem of banks that were too big to fail would have had a completely different dimension, because banks are only too big to fail in relation to the authority that bails them out. in contrast, i am not very happy about an earlier report by this house that calls for relaxing the state aid rules for services of general interest. on the competition dialogue, i am very pleased with the proposals. our proposals in no way undermine or impinge upon the powers of the european commission. quite on the contrary; they reflect the reality of the development of a political union in which economic policies and economic coordination become ever more important. finally, i welcome the fact that the european commission now seems to be moving in the direction of a sector inquiry into online and search advertising. this was long overdue.
author. − mr president, rafiq tagi was murdered after he exercised his universal human right of free speech. it is important that this is investigated and it is essential that the azerbaijani authorities do so in an independent and credible manner. there is also a clear need to address the fatwa that was issued after tagi’s critical article. it was issued by an iranian cleric and it was not condemned sufficiently. we have to make clear that no fatwa can ever be legitimised as a licence to kill. it is regrettable also that the azerbaijani authorities did not condemn this fatwa more strongly and publicly, and that his safety was not guarnteed. besides the investigation by the azerbaijani authorities, they have to decide what kind of a society they want to have and create. the murder, which can perhaps be labelled as an ‘incident’, took place in a climate of increased pressure on human rights, civil society and opposition parties, and notably liberal parties. if the authorities in azerbaijan do not clearly choose, both in letter and in practice and application, to adhere to their commitments as members of the council of europe and the osce, and to the country’s other international commitments, the eu should draw consequences. we strongly hope and encourage the azerbaijani authorities to move forward on the path towards a freer and more just society. i am not very hopeful for any collaboration by the iranian authorities into ascertaining the role that the iranian cleric played, but we can and must expect more from the azerbaijani authorities and, as the eu, use our relations with azerbaijan to pressure them.
author. − mr president, yesterday we awarded the sakharov prize to leading human rights defenders from north africa and the middle east, and one of the awardees was mohamed bouazizi, whose self-immolation sparked the uprisings in tunisia, and consequently in many other countries. the award was certainly intended and is intended to support those who continue on the long, difficult path of transition and the struggle towards free and just societies. zakaria bouguira’s case does not necessarily give us cause for hope. he witnessed and filmed the abuse of power and the use of violence by the tunisian police against moroccan soccer supporters, and as a result he was attacked by around 20 police officers. tunisia should do away with these ben ali-style practices and oppression. besides respect for human rights, the rule of law and good governance, we are specifically concerned with the role that technologies can play. they can be used to enable free speech, freedom of the press and access to information and, as this case shows, the documentation of human rights violations. it would be a huge mistake and missed opportunity if surveillance, censorship, tracking and tracing technologies continue to be deployed against people, as happened under the ben ali government.
